1



Sieascape with Figures 

It was one of those Septembers when it seemed that the 
summer would never end. 

The five-mile promenade of Royale-les-Eaux, backed by 
trim lawns emblazoned at intervals with tricolour beds of 
salvia, alyssum and lobelia, was bright with flags and, on the 
longest beach in the north of France, the gay bathing tents 
still marched prettUy down to the tide-line in big, money- 
making battalions. Music, one of those lilting accordion 
waltzes, blared from the loudspeakers around the Olynipic- 
size piscine and, firom time to tiine, echoing above the music, 
a man's voice announced over the public address system that 
Philippe Berttand, aged seven, was looking for his mother, 
that Yolande Leffevre was waiting for her fiiends below the 
clock at the entrance, or that a Madame Dufours was de- 
manded on the telephone. From the beiach, particularly &om 
the neighbourhood of the three playground enclosures - 
'Joie de Vivre', 'Helio' and 'Azur' - came a twitter of 
children's cries that waxed and waned with the thrill of their 
- games and, farther out, on the jBrm sand left by the now 
distant sea, the shrill whistle of the physical-fitness instructor 
marshalled his teenagers tiirougb the last course of the 
day. 

. It was one of those beautiful, naive seaside panoramas for 
which the Brittany and Picardy beaches have provided the 
setting - and inspired their recorders, Boudin, Tissot, Monet 
- Wer since the birth of plages and bains de mer more than a 
hundred years ago. 

To James Bond, sitting in one of the concrete shelters 
with his face to the setting sim, there was something poignant, 
•■ ephemeral about it aU. It reminded him almost too vividly of 
-> childhood - of the velvet fed of the hot powder sand, and the 
painful grit of wet sand between young toes when the time 

9 



came for him to put his shoes and soeks on, of the precious 
little pile of sea-shells and interesting wrack on the sill of his 
bedroom window ('No, we'll have to leave that behinds 
darling. If 11 dirty up your trunk!'), of the small crabs scutt- 
lii^ a^ay &biQ die nervous fingers groping, beneath the sea- 
weed in tiie rdck-popls, of the swimming and swimroing and 
swinuiiing through the-dandng waves - always in those days, 
it seemed, lit with, sunshine - and then the infuriating, in- 
evitable 'time to come oiit'. It Was aU there, his own child- 
hopdj spread out before liim to have another look at. What a 
long time ago they were, those spade-and-bucket days 1 How 
far he had come since tlie freckles and the Cadbury milk- 
chocolate Flakes and the fezy leipipna4e! Impatiently Bond 
lit a cigarette, pulled his shoulders but of thdr ; slouch md 
slammed the mawkish memories back into their long-closed 
file. Today he was a grown-up, a man with years of .dirty, 
dangerous memories - a spy. He was not sitting in this 
concrete hideout to sentimentalize about a pack of scrubby, 
smelly children on a beach scattered with bottle-tops and 
lolly-sticks and fringed by a sea thick with sun-oil and putrid 
with the main drains of Royale. He was here, he had chosen 
to be. here, to spy. To spy on a woman. 

The sun 'v^as getting lower. Already one could smell the 
September chill thit all day had lain hidden beneath the 
heat. The cohorts of bathers were in quick retreat, striking 
their little camps and filtering up the steps and across the 
promenade into the shelter of the town where the lights were 
going up in the cafes. ITie announcer kt the swiimdirig-^pbol 
harried his customers: 'Alio! Alio! Fermeture en dix 
minutes! A dix-huit heures, fermeture de la piscine!' Sil- 
houetted in the path of the setting sun, the two Bombard 
rescue^boats with flagS bearing a blue cross on a yellow back- 
ground were speeding northwards for their distant shelfet 
up-river in the Vieiix Port The last of the gay, giraffctriike 
sand-yachts fled down the distant water-line towards its^ 
corral amOng the sand d,unes, and the three agenis cyclistes 
in charge of the' car-parks pedalled away through the melting 
ranks of cars towards the police station in the centre of the 
■ "lO 



townl In a matter of/iniiiutes the vast expanse of sand - th^ 
,r ddCj Still receding, was already a mile out - would'be left to 
' the^seaguUs that would, soon be fiockiag in their hordes to 
forage for the scraps of food left by the picnickers. Then the 
orange ball of the suni would hiss down into the sea and the 
beach wbuldj for a while^ be enl^dy desert 
cover of darkness, the prowling lovers would come to writhe 
briefly, . grittily in the dark corners between the bathing-huts 
and the sea-wall. 

On die beaten stretch of sand below where Japes Bond 
was sitting, two golden girls in exciting bikinis packed up the 
game of Jokari which they had been so provocatively playing, 
and raced each other up the steps towards Bond's shelter! 
iliey flaimted thdr bodies at him, paused and^ 
• see if he would respond, and, when he didn't, linked arms 
and sauntered on towards the town, leaving Bond Wondering 
why it was that French girls had more prominent navels 
than any others. Was it that French surgeons sought tp add, 
e^ea in this minute respect, to the fntiite' sex-appeal of girl 
babies? •.' ^ 

And now, up and down the beach, the lifeguards gave a 
final blast on their horns to announce that they were going 
off duty,' the music from the piscine stopped, in mid-tune 
I and the great expanse of sand was suddenly deserted; 

But not quite 1 A hundred yards out, lying face down- 
Wards on a black and white striped bathing-wrap, on the 
private patch of firm sand where she liad ihs,ta]led herself an 
hour before, the girl was still there, rnotionless, spread- 
eagled in direct line betweep-James Bornd and the setting sun 
'that was now turning the left-behind pools and shallow' 
•rivulets into blood-red, meandering scrawls across the middle 
distance^: Bond went on watching her - nowi in tlie silence 
and emptihess, with an ounce more tension. He was waiting 
for her to do something - for something, he didn't fcttow ; 
what, to happen. It would be more true to say that he was 
■ watching over her. He had an instinct that she was in some 
; / sort of danget. Or wias it just that liiere was the smell of 
danger, in, the air? He didn*t jiibw. He only knew, that he .., 

11- ■ ■ . ^ . 



mustn't leave her aloncj particularly now that everyone else 
had gone. 

James Bond was mistaken. Not everyone else had gone. 
Behind him, at the Caf6 de la Plage on the other side of the 
promenade^ two men in raincoats and dark caps sat at a 
secluded table bordering the sidewalk. They had half-empty 
cups of coffee in front of them and they didi't talk. They sat 
and watched the blue on the fiosted-glass partition of the 
shelter that was James Bond's head and shoulders. They also 
watchedj but less intentlyj the distant white blur on the sand 
that was the girl. Their stillness, and their unseasonable 
clothes, would have made a disquieting impression on anyone 
who, in his turn, might have been watching them. But there 
was no such person, excerpt their waiter who had simply put 
them in the category of 'bad' news' aild hoped they would 
soon be on thek way. 

When the lower rim of the orange sun touched the sea, it 
was almost as if a signal had sounded fox the girl. She slowly 
got to her feet, ran both hands backwards through her hair apd 
began to walk evenly, purposefully towards the sun and tiie 
far-away fcoth of the water-line over a mile away. It would be 
violet dusk by the time she reached the sea and one might 
have guessed that this was probably the last day of her holi- 
day, her last bathe. 

James Bond thought otherwise. He left his shelter, ran 
down the steps to the sand and began walking out after her 
at a fast pace. Behind him, across the promenade, the two 
men in raincoats also seemed to think otherwise. One of them 
briskly threw down- some coins and they both got up and, 
walking stricdy in step, crossed the promenade to the sand 
and, with a kind of urgent military precision, marched 
rapidly side by side in Bond's tracks. 

Now the strange pattern of figures on the vast expanse of 
. empty, blood-streaked sand was eerily conspicuous. Yet it 
was surely not one to be interfered with! The pattern had 
a nasty, a secret smell. The white girl, the bare-headed young 
man, the two squat, marching pursuers - it had sdniething 
of a kind of deadly Grandmother's, Steps about it. In ti.ie 
^ 12 



cafcj tiie waiter collected the coins and looked after the dis- 
tant figures, still outlined by the last quarter of the orange 
sun. It smelt like police business - or the other thing. He 
would keep it to himsdf but remember it. He might get his 
name in the papers. 

James Bond was rapidly catching up with the girl. Now he 
knew that he would get to her just as she reached the water- 
line. He began to wonder what he would say to her, how he 
would put it. He couldn't say, 'I had a hunch you were 
going to commit suicide so I came after you to stop you.' 'I 
was going for a walk on the beach and I thought I recognized 
you. Will you have a drink after your swim?' would be 
. childish. He finally dedded to say, 'Oh, Tracy 1' and then, 
when she turned romidj 'I was worried about you.* Which 
would at least be inoffensive and, for the matter of that, 
ttue. , • 

The sea was now gunmetal below a primrose horizon. A 
small, westerly offehore breeze, drawiag the hot land-air out 
to sea, had risen and was piling up wavelets that scrolled in 
whitely as far as the eye could see. Flocks of herring gulls 
lazily rose and settled again at the girl's approach, and the air 
was full of their mewing and of the endless lap-lap of the 
small waves. The soft indigo dusk added a touch of melan- 
choly to the empty solitude of sand and sea, now so far away 
from the comforting bright lights and hohday bustle of 'La 
Reine de la C6te Opale', as Royale-les-Eaux had splendidly 
christened herself. Bond looked forward to getting the girl 
back to tliose bright lights. He watched the lithe golden 
figure in the white one-piece bathiag-suit and wondered how 
soon she would be able to hear his voice above the noise of 
the gulls and the sea. Her pace had slowed a firaction as she 
approached the water-line and her head, with its bell of 
heavy fair hair to the shoulders, was sHghtly bowed, in 
thought perhaps, or tiredness. 

Bond quickened his step until he was only ten paces be- 
hind her. 'Hey! Tracy!' 

The girl didn't start or turn quickly round. Her steps 
faltered and stopped, and tiien, as a small wave aeamed in 

13 



and died at her feet, she turned slowly and stood squarely 
facmg him. Her eyes, puffed ahd wet with tears, looked past 
him. Then they met his. She ssiid dtdly, 'What is it? What do 
you want?' ' 

'I was worried about yiau. What are you doing out here? 
What's the matter?' ■ i 

The girl looked past him again. Her clenched right hand 
went up to her mouth'. She said something, something Bond 
couldn*t understand, firom behind it. Then a voice from very . ' 
close behind Bond, said softly, silkilyi |Don't move . or you 
get it back of the fcaee.' . 

Bond swirled round into a brouch, his gtin hiahd inside his 
coat. Tiie steady silver eyes of the tsyo automatics sneered at 
'him. - , . "■ . ; ' 

Bond slowly straightened himsel£ He dropped his hand to ' 
his side and lie held breath came out between his teeth in a " , 
quiet hiss. The two dead-pan, professional fades told liim ' 
even more, than the two isilver .eyes of the guns. They held : 
no tension, no excitement. The thin half-siniles were relaxed, 
contented. The eyes were not even wary. They were almost 
bored. Bond had looked into such faces many tinies before. 
This was routine. These men were kfllers - pro-HUers. 

Bond had no idea who tiese men were, who they worked 
' for, what this was all about. On flie theory that worry is a 
dividend paid to disaster before it is due, he consciously 
tsiaised his muscles and emptied his mind of questions. He 
stood aild waited. . ' 

'Position your hands behind your neck.' The silky, patient 
voice was i&om the south, from the Mediterranean. It fitted 
with the men's faces - tougih-skinned, widely pored, yellow- 
brown. Aiarsdllais perhaps, or Italiak. The Mafia? The faces 
belonged to good secret police or tough crooks. Bond's mind 
ticked and whirred, selecting cards like an IBM machine. ' 
What enemies had he got in those areas? Migjitit be Blofeld? ' 
Had the hare turned upon the hound? ■ * ., 

When the, odds are. hopeless, when 9II seems to be lost, 
then is , the time to be cahn, to make a show of authority - 
at least' of indifference.. Bond .smiled into the eyes of the man ' 



who had spoken. 'I don't tiUnk your mother would like to 
know what you are doing this evening. You are a Catholic? , 
So I will do as you ask.' The man's eyes gUttered. Touche! 
Bond clasped his hands behind his head. 

The inaii stood' aside so as to have a dear field of fire while , 
his Number Two removed Bond's Walther PPK from the 
■ soft leather holster inside his trousef belt' and ran expert' 
hands down his sides, down his arms to the wrists and down 
the inside of his thighs; Then Number Two stood back, 
podseted the Walther and again took out his own gun. 

Bond glanced over his Shoulder. The girl had said nothing, 
expressed ndther surprise nor alarm. Now she was standing 
with her batck to the grpjip, looking out to sea, apparently 
rdaxedj imconceroedv A)i&atia Gfltf^^ liaiiiiB was it all aboiit? 
Had she been used as a bait? But for whom? And now what? 
Was he to be executed, his body left lying to be rolltti back ' 
inshore by the tide? It seemed the; only solution. If it wa^ a 
question ^f spm^ kind of a deal, the four of them could aot 
just walk tack across the sand to the tovm and say 

pdlite goodbyes on the promenade steps. No. This was the 
terminal ppint. Or was it? From the north, through the deep 
indigo dusk, came the fast, ratding hum of an outboard and, 
as Bond watchied, the cream of a thipk bow-wave shovyed and 
then the bltmt otitline of one of the Bombard rescue-craft, the 
flat-bottomed inflatable rubber boats with a single Johnson 
engine in the flattened stern. So they had been spotted! By 
the coastguards perhaps? And here was rescue! By God, 
he'd roast these two thugs when .they, got to the harbour, 
police at the Vieiix Portl But what story would he tell about 
the girl? ■ i 

Bond turned back to face the men. At once he knew the 
wprst. They had rolled their trousers up to the Imees and Were 
waiting, composedly, their shoes in one hand and their guns 
in the otbst. This was no rescue. It was just part of the ride. 
Oh weU! Paying no attention to the men. Bond bent down, 
rolled up his trousers as they had done and, in the process of 
fumbUng with his socks and shofes, palmed one of his heel 
knives and, half turning towards the boat that had now ' 



grounded in the shallows, transferred it to his right-hand 
tcouser pocket. 

No words were exchanged. The girl climbed aboard first, 
then Bond,' and lastly die two men who helped the engine 
witih & final shove on the stern. The boatman, who looked 
like any other French deep-sea fisherman, whirled the blunt 
nose of the Bombard round, changed gears to forward, and 
they were off northwards through the buffeting waves wlnle 
the golden hair of the girl streamed back and softiy wliipped 
James Bond's cheek. 

'Tracy. You're going to catch cold.. Here. Take my coat.' 
Bond slipped bis coat off. She held nut a hand to help him 
pat it on her. In the process her hand found his and pressed 
it. Now what the heU? Bond edged closer to her. He felt her 
body respond. Bond glanced at the two men. They sat hun- 
ched against the wind, their hands in their pockets, watchful, 
but somehow uninterested. Behind them the necklace of 
Hghts that was Royale receded swiftly until it was only a 
golden glow on the horizon. James Bond's right hand felt for 
the comforting knife in his pocket and ran his thumb across 
the razor-sharp blade. 

While he wondered how and when he might have a chance 
to use it, the rest of his mind ran back over the previous 
twenty-foui hours and panned them for the gold-dust of 
truth. 



16 



2' 



Gran Turismo 

Almost exact£y tweaty-four hoius before, James .Bond 
had been nursing Iris cat, th.6 old Goijjtmental Bentley - the 
'R' type chassis with the hig 6 engine and s 13:40 back- 
axle ratio - that he had now been driving for three years, 
along that fast but dull stretdh of N.l , between Abbeville and 
Montreuil that takes thei !English totitist badt to his coimtry 
via Silver City .Airways from Le Tonquet or by ferry from 
Boulogne or Calais. He was hurrying safely, at between 
■ eighty and ninety, driving by the automatic pilot that is buill; . 
in to ail lally-class drivers, and his mind vyas totellj' occu- 
pied witii drafting his letter of resignatTdn from' the Secret 
'Service. 

The letter, addressed 'Personal for M', had got to the 
foltowiDg stage: . : . ' ; ; ! ; 

, ;sir,.;\, ■• ■, ' 

I have the honour to request that you will accept my ■ 
resignation from the Service, effective forthwith, ■ 
' My reasons for this submission, whidh I put forward 
with much regreti are the foUo\nng 

(1) iMy duties in the Service, uiatil sotrie twelve months 
ago, have been connected with the Double-0 Section and 
yoii. Sir, have been kind enough, from time to time, to 
'express your satisfaction with my perforniance of those 
duties, wHch I, for my part, have enjoyed To my chagrin, 
[Bond had been pleased with this fine word] however, bh 
the successful completion of Operation 'Thunderball', I " 
received personal instructions from you to concentrate all 
my efforts, without a terminal date,, [another fehcitous 
. phrase!] oh the puirsuit of Eiist Stavro Blofdd and 
apprehension, together vrith aiiy members of spectre - 
otherwise 'The Special Executive for Counter-Intelli- 
^" ■ .•■;M7 ■;■ ■ ■ -■' : 



gence. Revenge and Extortion' - if that organization had 
been re-created since its destruction at the climax of 
Operation 'Thunderball'. 

(2) I accepted the assignment with^ if you will recall, re- 
luctance. It seemed to me, and I so expressed nayself at 
the time, that this was purely an investigatory matter 
which could weU have been handled, using straightforward 
police methods, by other sections of the Service - local 
Stations, alhed foreign secret services and Interpol. 
My objections were overruled, and for close on twelve 
months I lave been engaged all over the world in routine 
detective work which, in the case of every scrap of 
riunour, every lead, has proved abortive, I have found 
no trace of this man nor of a revived spectrb, if such 
exists. 

(3) My many appeals to bfe relieved of this wearisome and 
fruitiess assignment, even when addressed to you per- 
sonally. Sir, have been ignored or, on occasion, curtiy 
dismissed, and my frequent animadversions [another good 
one!] to lie effect that Blofeld is dead have been treated 
with a courtesy that I can only describe as scant. [Neat, 
that! Perhaps a bit too neat!] 

(4) The above unhappy circumstances have recentiy 
achieved their dimax in my undercover mission (Ref. 
Station R'S PX 437/007) to Palermo, in pursuit of a hare 
of quite outrageous falsity. This animal took the shape of 
one 'Blauenfelder', a perfectiy respectable German citizen 
engaged in viniculture - specifically the grafting of MoseUe 
grapes on to the Sicilian strains to enhance the sugar 
content of the latter which, for youi passing information, 
[Steady on, old chap! Better redraft all this!] are inclined 
to sourness. My investigations into this individual brought 
me to the attention -of the Mafia and my departure firom 
Sicily was, to say the least, ignomimous. 

(5) Having regard. Sir, to the above and, spedficaUy, to 
the continued misuse of the qualities, modest .though they 
may be, that have previously fitted me for the more arduous, 
and, to me, more rewarding, duties associated with the 

.18 



work of theJ)ouble-0 Section, I beg leave to submit my 
resignation from the Service. 

I am. Sir, 

Your Obedient Servant, 
007 

Of course, reflected Bond, as he nursed the long bonnet 
of his car through a built-up S-bend, he would have to re- 
write a lot of it. Some of it was a bit pompous and there were 
one or two cracks that would have to be ironed out or toned 
down. But that was the gist of what he would dictate to his 
secretary when he got back to the office the day after to- 
morrow. And if she burst into tears, to hell witii. her! He 
meant it. By God he did. He was fed to the teeth witii chasing 
the ghost of Blofeld. And the same went for spectre. The 
thing had been smashed. Even a man of Blofeld's genius, in 
the impossible event that he still eristed, could never get a 
machine of that calibre running again. 

It was then, on a ten-mile straight cut through a forest, 
that it happened. Triple wind-horns screamed their banshee 
discord in his ear, and a low, white two-seater, a Landa 
Flaminia Zagato Spyder with its hood down, tore past him, 
cut in cheekily across his bonnet and puUed away, the sexy 
boom of its twin exhausts echoing badk from tiie border of 
trees. And it was a girl driving, a girl with a shocking pink 
scarf tied round her hair, leaving a brief pink tail that the 
wind blew horizontal behind her. 

If there was one thing that set James Bond really moving 
in life, with the exception of gun-play, it was being passed at 
speed by a pretty girl; and it was his experience that girls who 
drove competitively like that were always pretty - and excit- 
ing. The shock of the wind-horn's scream had automatically 
cut out 'George', emptied Bond's head of all other thought, 
and brought his car back under manual control. Now, with a 
tight-lipped smile, he stamped his foot into the floorboard, 
held the wheel firmly at a quarter to three, and went after her. 

100, 110, 115, and he still wasn't gaining. Bond reached 
forward to the dashboard and flicked up a. red switch. The 

19 



tilia high whine of machinery on the brink of torment tote 
at his eardrimis and the Bentley gave an almost perceptible 
kick forwardvil26, >125; He was definitely gaining, 50 yardsj 
40, 30! Now he could just see her eyes in her rear mirror. 
But the good road was running out. One of those exclamation 
marks that the French use to denote danger flashed by on his. 
right. And no^j over a riscy there was a church , spite^, the 
dusteredhouses of a smaU-village at the bottom of a steespish • 
bill, the snake sign of ailOthef S-berid. Both cars slowed 
down - 90, 80, 70. Bond watched her tail-lights briefly blaze, 
saw her right hand reach down to the floor stick, almost 
simiiltaneously with his own, and change down. Theu they 
were in the S-bend, oii cobbles,; and he had to brake as he 
enviously watched die way her de Dion axle married her rear 

: wheels to the rough going, while his own live axle hopped and 
skittered as he y^rehc^ed at the Wheel. And then it was the 
eaid of the village, andi with a brief wag of her tail as ihe came 
out of the S, she was off like a bat out of hell up the long 
straight rise and he had lost fifty yards. ' 

And so the race went on. Bond gaining a Httle on the 
straights but Ipsiag it alL to the famous Lancia road-holding 
through the vilkges >- and, hehad to admits to hier wonderful, 
nerveless driving. And now tt big MicheUn sign said 'Mon- 
treuil 5, Rbyale-les-Eaux 10, Le Touquet-Paris-Plage 15', 
and he wondered about her destination and debated with 
himsdf whether he shouldn't forget about Royale and the 
night he had inoinised himseilf at ite famous casino and just 

• follqw where she went, wlierevd: it was, and fcid, 6ut who 
this devil of a girl was. 

The decision was taken out of his hands, Montreuil is a 
dsngerpm town with cobbled, twisting streets and inucb 
ferm traffic. Bond was fifty yards bdund her at the oirt- 
skirts, but, with his big car, he couldn't follow her fast 
slalom through the hazards and,, by the time he was out of 
the town and over the !6taples.-Paris levd-crossing, she had 
vanished. The left-hand turn for Rojrale came up. Was 
thisre ^ little dioiit Iianging in the bend? Bond took the turn, 
sbmehow knowing that he was going to. see her again* 
' .;- V 20 



He leaned forward aiid flicked down the red switch. The 
moan of the blower died away and there was silence in the 
car as he motored along, easing im tense muscles. He won- 
dered if the, supercharger had damaged the engioe. Against 
the solemn warnings of Rolls-Riaycej, he iad had fitted;; by 
his pet exjpert; at the Headquarters' motor pool, an Arnott 
supercharger controlled by a magnetic clutch. Rolls-Royce 
had said the; cranl^shaft bearings wotildn't take the extra 
load aii4i wh^en he confessed to them what he had done, they 
regretfully but firmly withdrfew their guarantees and; washed 
their hands of their bastardized child, -This was the first 
time he had notched 125 and the rev. counter had Shovered 
dangerously over the red area at; 4500. But the temperature 
and oil were OK and there were no expensive iipises. And, 
by God, it had beert fun! , 

James Bond idled through the pretty approaches to Royale, 
through the young beeches and the heavy-scented pines,, 
looking forward to .thei evening and rememberjbg his pt^^^^ 
ahiiual pilgrimages tp this place and, particuliarly, the great 
;batde acfoss the baize he had had with Le ChiSre so many 
years , ago. He had come a long way since then, dodged many 
bullets and much death and loved many ghrls, but ttiere had 
been a chrama and a poignancy about that particular adventure 
that every yeax drew hin back to Royale and its c^ino anid 
to the small granite cross in the Iittl,e Ghurchyard tiiat simply 
' said 'Vesper Lynd. RIP.'. : 

And now what was the place holding for him, on this 
beautiful September evening? A big win? A painful loss? A 
• beautiful girl - that beautiftil girl? 

To think first of the gariicj This was the week-end of the 
'cl6ture annuelle'. Tonight, this very Saturday night, the 
Casiao Royale was holding its last night of the season. It was 
always a big event and theire vcould be pilgrims even firom 
Belgium and Holland, as wdl as. the rich regulars firom Paris 
and Lille, In addition, the 'Syndicat d'Initiative et des Bains 
de Mer de Royale' traditionally threw open its doors to aU its 
local contractors and suppliers, and there was free champagne 
and a great groaning buiBFet to reward the tovm people for 



their work durmg the season. It was a tremendous carouse 
that rarely finished before breafcfast time. The tables would 
be packed and there would be a very high game indeed. 

Bond had one million francs of private capital - Old 
Francs, of course - about seven hundred pounds' worth. He 
always reckoned his private funds in Old Francs. It made him 
feel so rich. On the other hand, he made . out his official 
expenses in New Francs because that made them look smaller 
- but probably not to the Chief Accountant at Headquarters ! 
One milhon francs ! For that evening he was a millionaire! 
Might he so remain by tomorrow mormngl 

And now he was coming into the Promeiiade des Anglais 
and there was the bastard Empire frontage of the Hotel 
Splendide. And there, by God, on the gravel sweep along- 
side its steps, stood the littie white Lancia and, at this 
moment a bagagiste, in a striped waistcoat and green 
apron, was carrying two Vuitton suitcases up the steps to 
the entrance! 

So! 

James Bond shd his car into the milUon-pouiid line of cars 
in tihie car.park, told the same bagagiste, who was now taldng 
rich, small stuff out of the Lancia, to bring up his bags, and 
went in to the reception-desk. The manager impressively 
took over fi:om the clerk and greeted Bond with golden- 
toothed effusion, while making a mental note to earn a good 
mark with the Chef de Police by reporting Bond's arrival, so 
that the Chef could, in his turn, make a good mark with the 
Deuxitoe and the SDT by putting the news on the tele- 
printer to Paris. 

Bond said, 'By the way. Monsieur Maiirice. Who is the 
lady, who has just driven up in the white Lancia? She is 
staying here?* 

'Yes, indeed, Mon Commandant.' Bond received an extra 
two teeth in the enthusiastic smile. 'The lady is a good friend 
of the house. The father is a very big industrial from the 
South. She is La Comtesse Teresa di Vicenzo. Monsieur 
must surely have read of her in the papers. Madame la 
Comtesse is a lady - how -shall I put it?* - the smile became 

22 



secretj between men - 'a lady, shall we say, who lives life to 
■thefuU.'/- . 

, *Ah, yes. Thank ypu. And how has the season been?' 

The small' tjilk continued as the manager personally took . 
Bond up in the lift and showed him into one of the handsome 
grey and white Directoire rooms with the deep rose coverlet 
on the bed that Bond remembared so well. Then, with a 
final exchimge of courtesies, James Bond was alone. 

Bond Was faintly disappointed. She sounded a bit grand 
for him, and he didn't happen to like girls, film stars for 
instance, who were in any way public property. He liked 
private girls, girls he could discover himself and make his 
own. Perhaps, he admitted, there was inverted s^obbery in 
this. Perhaps,, even less worthily, it was that the famous ones 
were less easy to get. 

His two battered suitcases came and he unpacked leisurely 
and then ordered ftom Room Service a' bottle of the Taittin- 
ger Bknc de 31aiics that he had made his traditional drink at 
Royale. When the botde, in its fiosted silver bucket, caine, 
he drank a quarter of it rather fast and then went into the 
bafilroom and had an ice-cold shower and washed his hair 
with Pinaud Elixir,, that prince among shaiapooSj to get the 
dust of the roads out of it. Then he slipped on his. dark-blue 
tropical worsted trousers, white sea-island cotton shirt, 
socks and black casual shoes (he abhorred shoe-laces), and 
went and sat by tiie window, and looked out across the pro- 
menade to the SKI and wondered where he would havi 
diimer and what he would choose to eat. 

James Bond was not a gourmet; In England he lived on 
grilled soles, oeufs cocotte and cold roast beef with potato 
salad, But when trayelloig abroad, gmeraUy by 
meals were a welconiie break in the day, somettdng to, look 
forward to, somethiflg to break the tension of fast driving, 
with its risks taken or avoided, the narrow squeaks, the per-^ 
manent background of concern for the fitness of his macliLne. 
In fact, at this moment, after coveriiig the long stretch ;from 
the ItaUan frontier at VentimigUa m a comfortable three days 
(God fcoiew! tbere Was no reason to hwrry back to Head- 



quarters!), he was fed to the teeth with the sucker-traps for 
gourmandizing tourists. The 'Hostdleries', the 'Vieilles 
Auberges', the 'Relais Fleuris' - he had had the lot. He had 
had theii 'Bonnes Tables*^ and their Tines Bouteilles'. He 
had had their 'jSp^dalitfe du Chef' - generally a rich sauce 
of cream and wine afad a few button mushrooms concealing 
poor quahty meat,or fish. He had had the whole lip-smacking 
ritual of winemansloip and foodmanship and, incidentallyj 
he had had quite enough of the Bisodol that went with it! . 

The French belly-religion had delivered its final kick at 
hitn the night before. Wishing to avoid Orl&ns, he had 
stopped south of this uninspiring dty and had chosen a mock- 
Breton Auberge on the south bank of the Loire, despite its 
profusion of window-boxes and sham beams, ignoring the 
china cat pursuing the china bird across its gabled roof, 
because it was right on the edge of the Loire - perhaps Bond's 
favourite river in the world. He had stoically accepted the 
hammered copper v/arming pans, brass cooking utensUs and 
other antique bogosities that cluttered the walls of the 
entrance hall, had left his bag in his room and had gone for 
an agreeable walk along the softly running, swallow-skimmed 
river. The dining-room, in which he was one of a small 
handful of tourists, had soimded the alarm. Above a fire- 
place of electric logs and over-polished fire-irons there had 
hung a coloured plaster escutcheon bearing the dread device: 
ICY DOTJLCE FRANCE. All the plates, of some hideous local 
ware, bore the jingle, irritatingly inscrutable, 'Jamais en 
Vain, Toujours en Vin', and the surly waiter, stale with 'fin 
de saison', had served him with the fly-walk of the Pltd 
AiaisoQ (sent back for a new slice) and a Poularde h. la cr^me 
that was the only genuine antique in the place. Bond had 
moodily washed down this sleazy provender with a bottle of 
instant Pouilly-Fuiss6 and was finally insulted the next 
morning by a bill for the meal in excess of five potmds. 

It was to efface aU these dyspeptic memories that Bond 
now sat at his window, sipped his Taittmgei and weighed 
up the pros and cons of the local eating places and wondered 
what dishes it would be best to gamble on. He finally chose 

24 



one of his favourite Testaurants in France, a modest establish- 
mentj vmpromisingly placed exactly opposite the railway 
station of Staples, rang up his old fidend Monsieur BecaUd 
for a table and, two hours later, .was motoring back to the 
Casino with Turbot poch6, sauce mousseline, and half the 
best roast partridge he had eaten in his life, under his belt. 

Greatly encouraged, and further stimulated by half a 
bottle of Mouton Rothschild '53 and a glass of ten-year-old 
Calvados with his three cups of coflFee, he went cheerfully 
up the thronged steps of the Casino with the absolute certi- 
tude that this was going to be a night to remember. 



25 



The Gambit (yf Shame 



(The bombard hiad now beaten round, thie dolefully clang- 
ing bell-buoy and was hammering slowly iip the River Royale 
against the current. The, gay lights of the little marinai, haven 
of cross-channel yachtsmen, shbwed, way up on the right 
bahkj and it crossed Bond's rnind to wait until they were 
shghtly above it and then plunge his knife into the side an(i 
bottom of the rubber Bonibard and swim for it. But he al- 
ready heard in his mind the boom of the guns and heard the 
zwip and splash of the bullets round his head until, probably, 
there game the bright: burst of light and the final flash of 
knowledge that he had at last h^d it. And anyway, how well 
could the girl swim, and in this current? Bond was now very 
cold. He leant closer against her and went back to remem- 
bering the night before and combmg his memories for clues.) 

After the; long Wsdk across the Salle d'Enitr^ past the 
vitrines of > Van Cleefi Lmvin, Herm^ and the rest, there 
came the brief pause for identification at the long desk backed 
by the tiers of filing cabineisj the payrhent for the Carte 
d'Entr^e pour les Salles de Jeux, the quick, comptometer 
survey of the physiognomiste at tibie entrance, the bow and 
flourish of the garishly uhifonned hm'ssier at dbe door, and 
James Bond was insidie thelielly of the handsomei,' scented; 
machine. 

He paused for a moment by the caisse, his nostrils flaring 
at the smell of the crowded, electric, elegant scene, thfen he 
walked slowly across to the top cbemin de fer table beside 
the entrance to the luxuriously appointed bar, and caught the 
eye of Monsieur Pol, the cief de Jeu of the iiigh game. 
Monsieur Pol spoke to a huissier and Bond was shown to 
Ntimber Seven, reserved by a counter from the huissier's 
pocket. The huissier gave a quick brush to the baize inside 
the line - that famous line that had been the bohe of conten- 

^ . : 26 



tion in the Tranby Croft case involving King Edward VII - 
polished an ash-txay and pulled out the chair for Bond. Bond 
sat down. The shoe was at the other end of the table^ at 
Number Three, Cheerful and relaxed. Bond examined the 
faces of the otlier players while the Changeur changed his 
notes for a hundred thousand into ten blood-red counters of 
ten thousand each. Bond stacked them in a neat pile in ftont 
of him and watched the play whichj he saw from the notice 
hanging between the grefen-shaded lights over the table, was 
for a minimum of one hundred New Francs, or ten thousand 
of the old. But he noted that the game was being opened by 
each banker for up to five hundred New Francs -. serious 
money - say fbrtx pounds as a starter. 

The players were* the usual international mixture - three 
LiUe textile tycoons in over-padded dinner-jackets, a couple 
of heavy women in diamonds who might be Belgian, a rather 
Agatha - Christie-style litde Englishwoman who played 
quietly and successfully and might be a villa owner, two 
middle-aged Americans in dark siiits who appeared cheerful 
and slightly drunk, probably down from Paris, and Bond. 
Watchers and casual punters were two-deep round the table.. 
No girl! 

The game was cold. The shoe went slowly round the table, 
each banker in turn going down on that dread third coup 
which, for some reason, is the sound barrier at chemin de 
fer which must be broken if you are to have a run. Each 
time, when it came to Bond's turn, he debated whether to 
bow to the pattern and pass his bank after the second coup. 
Each time, for nearly an hour of play, he obstinately told 
himself that the pattern would break, and why not with him? 
That the cards have no memory and that it was time for them 
to run. And each time, as did the other players, he went down 
on the third coup. The shoe came to an end. Bond left his 
money on the table and wandered off among the other tables, 
visiting the roulette, the trente et quarante and the baccarat 
table, to see if he could find the girl. When she had passed 
him that evening in the Lancia, he had only caught a glimpse 
of fair hair and of a pure, ratiier authoritative profile. But 

27" 



•1 



he knew that he would recognize her at once, if only by the 
cord of animal rnagnetism that had bound them together 
during; the face. But there was no sign of her. 

Bond went back to the table. The croupier was marshalling 
the six packs into the oblong block that would soon be sUpped 
into the waiting shoe. Since Bond , was beside him, the croupier 
oflfered him llie neutiral,' plain red card to cut the pack with, 
, Bond rubbed the card between his fingers and, with amused 
deliberation, slipped, it as nearly half-^ay down the block 
of cards as he could estimate. The croupier smiled at him 
and at his deUberatipn, went through the legerdeniain;that , 
wotdd in due course bring the red stop card into the tongue 
of the shoe and stop the game just seven cards before the 
end of the shoe, packed the long block of cards into the shoe, 
slid in the metal tongue that held them prisoner and 
annpunced, loud and clear; 'Messieurs [the 'mesdames' are 
traditionaUy not mentioned; since Victoriari days it has been 
assumed that ladies do not gamble], les jeux Sont faits. 
Nxmadro six la main.' The Chef de Jeu, on his throne be- 
hind the croupier, took up the cry, the huissiers shepherded 
distant stragglers bad: to their places, and the game began 
again. . ■ ^ 

James Bond confidently bancoed the Lille tycoon on his 
left, won, made up the cagnotte with a few small counters, 
and doubled the stake to two thousand New Francs - two, 
hundred thousand of the old. 

He won that, and the next. Now for the hurdle of the third 
coup and he was off to the races ! He won it with a natural 
nine! Eight hundred thousand in the bank (as Bond reckoned 
it)! Again he won, with difficulty this time - his six agiinst 
a five. Then he dedded to play it safe and pile up some capital. 
Of the one million six, he asked for the six hundred to be put 
'en garage', removed from the stake, leaving a bank of one 
million, Again he won. Now he put a million 'en garage'. 
Once more a bank of a million, and now he would have a 
fat cushion of one million six coming to him ainyway! But 
it was getting difficult to niake up his stake. The table was 
becoining wary of this, dark Englishman who played so 

28 



quietlyj waiy of liehalf-smile of ceititude oiiMs tdthercruel 
mputh. WliQ was he? Where did he come from? What did 
he do? There was amimnur of exdted speculation round the 
table- So far a run of six. Would ihe EngUshnian pocket his 
small 'fortune and pass the bank? Ot . would he continue to 
fun it? Surely; tbe cards vmust bhahgel But Jaines Bond's 
mind was made lip. The cards hivfe no inemory in defeats 
They, also hSye no mempiy. in victory. He tan the bank three 
mora times, dddihg ,«ae}iiitiifte 

then'the Kttlei old' English lady, who had so fair left 5ie rtiii- 
ining to the others, stepped in and bancped Mm at the tenth 
turn, and Bond smiled across at her, knowing that she was 
goLog to win. And she did^ ignominiously, with a one against 
Bond's 'biiche' .- three kings, making zero. : • ' ', , 

There was a sigh of rehef round the table. The spell had 
been broken! 'And a whisper of envy as the heavy, mother- 
of-pearl, plaques piled nearly a foot high, four million, six 
hundred thousand francs' worth, well over three thousand 
pounds, were shunted, across to Bond with the flat of , the 
croupier's^spatula. Bond tossed a plaque for a hundred New 
Francs to the croupier, received the traditional 'Merci, mon- 
sieur! Pour le personnel!' and the game went on. 

James Bond lit a cigarette and paid little attention as the 
shoe went' shunting round the table away ftom him. He had 
made a packet, dammit! A bloody packet! Now he must be 
i careful. Sit on it. But not too careful, not sit on all of it! This 
: was a glorious evening. It was barely past midnight. He 
didn't want to go home yet. Scbe itl He would, run his bank 
when it came to him, but do no bancoing of the others - 
absolutely none. The cards had got hot. His run had shown 
i that. There would be other runs now, and he .could easily, 
* birm his fingers' chasing them. : ', . » : ,' 1 

Bond waS right. When the shoe got ,td Number: Five, to 
one of the Lille tycoons two places- tb th,e left of Bond, an 
iU-mannered, loud-mouthed player who smoked a cigar out 
of an amber-and-gpld holder and who tore at the cards with 
heavily manicured, spatulate fingers and slapped theni down 
.like a Getniah tarpt player, he quitMy got through the third 



coup and was off. Bond, in accordance with his plan, left 
him severely alone and now, at the sixth coup, the bank stood 
at twenty thousand New Francs - twenty million of the old, 
and the table had got wary again. Everyone was sitting on Ms 
money. 

The croupier and the Chef de Jeu made their loud calls, 
*Un banco de vingt tnille! Faites vos jeux, messieurs. II reste 
J compl6ter! Un banco de vingt mille !' 

And then there she was ! She had come from nowhere and 
was standing beside the croupier, and Bond had no time to 
take in more than golden arms, a beautiful golden face with 
brilliant blue eyes and shocking pink lips, some kiad of a 
plain white dress, a bell of golden hair down to her shoulders, 
and then it came. 'Banco!' 

■ Everyone looked at her and there was a moment's silence. 
And then 'Le banco est fait' fcom the aoupier, and the 
monster from Lille (as Bond now saw him) was tearing the 
cards out of the shoe, and hers were on their way over to her 
on the croupier's spatula. 

She bent down and there was a moment of discreet cleavage 
in the white V of her necHine. 

'Une carte.' 

Bond's heart sank. She certainly hadn't anything better 
than a five. The monster turned his up. Seven. And now he 
scrabbled out a card for her and flicked it contemptuously 
across. A simpering queen! 

The croupier delicately faced her other two cards with the 
tip of his spatula. A four! She had lost! 

Bond groaned Inwardly and looked across to see how she 
had taken it. 

What he saw was not reassuring. The' girl was whispering 
urgently to the Chef de Jeu. He was shaking Ms head, sweat 
was beading on' Ms cheeks. In the silence that had fallen 
roimd the table, the silence that licks its lips at the strong 
smell of scandal, which was now electric in the' air. Bond 
heard the Chef de Jeu say firmly, 'Mais c'est impossible, Je 
regrette, madame.' E faut vous arranger k la caisse.' 

And now that most awfiil of all wMspers in a casino was 

30 , 



running among the watchers and the players like a slithering 
reptile: 'Le coup du ddshonneui! C'est le coup du deshon.- 
neur } Quelle honte 1 Quelle honte ! ' 

Ohj my God I thought Boiid.- She's done it! She hasn't got 
the money! And for some reason she can't get any credit at 
the caissei 

The monster feom Lille was making the most of thie situa- 
tion. He knew that the casino would pay in the case of a 
default. He sat back with lowered eyes, puffing at his cigar, 
the injured party. 

But Bond knew of the stigma the girl would carry for the 
. rest of her life. The Casinos of France are a strong trade 
union. They have to be. Tomorrow the telegrams would go 
out: 'Madame la Contesse Teressl di Vicenzoj passport ntim- 
ber X, is to be put on the black list." That would be the end 
of her casino life in France, in Italy, probably also in Ger- 
many, Egypt and, today, England. It was like bemg declared 
a bad risk at Lloyd's or vsdth the City security firm of Dun 
and Bradstreet. In American gambling circles, she might even 
have been liquidated. In Europe, for her, the fate would be 
almost as severe. In the circles in which, presumably, she 
moved, she would be bad news, unclean. The 'coup du 
Seshonneur' simply wasn't done. It was social ostracism. 

Not caring about the sodal ostracism, thinking only about 
the wonderful girl who had outdriven him, shown him her 
tail, between Abbeville and Montreuil, James Bond leant 
sUghtly forward. He tossed two of the precious pearly plaques 
into the centre of the table. He said, with a shghtly bored, 
slightly puzzled intonation, 'Forgive me. Madame has for- 
gotten that we agreed to play in partnership this evening.' 
And, not looking at the girl, but speaking with authority to 
the Chef de Jeu, ' I beg your pardon. My mind was elsewhere. 
Let the game continue.' 

The tension round the table relaxed. Or rather it changed 
to another target, away from the gkl. Was it true what this 
EngUshman had said? But it must be! One does not pay 
twenty million ftancs for a girl. But previously there had been 
no relationship between them - so far as one could see. They 

31 



had been at opposite sidies of the table. No signs of com- 
plicity had been exchanged. And the gjtcl? She had shown 
no emotion. Shehadlookedatthemarij pnccj with directness. 
Then she had (juietly moved away j&om the tabicj towards the 
bar. There was certainly something odd here >- something 
one did, not understand. But the game was proceeding. Tiie 
; Chef de Jeu had surreptitiously wiped a handkerchief across 
his face. The croupier had raised his head, which, previously, 
had seemed to be bowed under some kind of emotional guillo- 
tine. And now the old pattern had ire-estabhshed itself. 'La 
partiie continue. Un baaco de q^arante milleP ; 

James Bond glanced down at the still ifotmidaijle pile of , 
counters between his curved, relaxed arms. It would be nice 
t;o get. that twenty puUiop frames, back. It might be hours 
before a banco of equal size offered the chance. After all, he 
was playing with the casino's money ! His profits represented , 
'found' money and, if he lost, he could still go away with a 
small profit - enough and to spare to pay for his night at 
Royale, And he had taken a dislike to the monster from Lille. 
It would be amusing to reverse the old fable - first to rescue 
the girl, th^ia to slky the irionster. And it was time for the 
man's run of luck to end. After all, the cards bave no me- 
mory! 

James Bond had not enough funds to take the whole banco, 
only half of it, what is known as 'avec la table', meaning that 
the other players coifld make up the remaiaing half if they 
wanted to. Bond, forgetting the conservative strategy he had ■ 
sworn himself to only half an hour before, leant slightly . 
forward and said^ 'Ayec la table,' and pushed twenty thousand 
New Francs over the line. 

Money foUowed-his on to the table. Was this not the Eng- ' 
lishman with the green fingers? And" Bond was pleaded 
to note, that the. Httie old Agatha Christie Englishwoman 
supported him with teg. thousand. That w^as a good omen! ' 
lie looked at the banker, the His cigar had ; 

gone put in its holder and hjs lips, where they gripped the 
holder, were white. He was sweating profusely. He was de- 
bating whether to pass the hand and take his &t profits or 



have one more go. The sharpj pig-like eyes darted round the 
table, estimating if his four million was covered. 

The croupier wanted to hurry the play. He said firmly, 
'C'est plus que fait, monsieur.* 

The man &om LiUe made up his mind. He gave the shoe 
a fat slap, wiped his hand on the baize and forced out a card. 
Then one for himself, another for Bond, the fourth for him. 
Bond did not reach aaoss Number Six for the cards. He 
waited for fhem to be nudged towards him by the croupier. 
He raised them just off the table, slid them far enough apart 
between his hands to see the count, edged them together 
again and laid them softly face down again on the table. He 
had a five I That dubious jade on which one caii dther draw 
or not! The chances of improving your hand towards or away 
from a nine are equal. He said 'Non,' quietly, and looked 
across at the two anonymous pink backs of the cards in front 
,of the banker. The man tore them up, disgustedly tossed 
them out on to the table. Two knaves. A 'buche'I Zero! 

Now there were only four cards that could beat Bond and 
only one, the five, lliat could equal him. Bond's heart 
thumped. The man scrabbled at the shoe, snatched out the 
card, faced it. A nine, the nine of diamonds! The curse of 
Scotland! The best! 

It was a mere formality to turn over and reveal Bond's 
miserable five. But there was a groan round the table. 'II 
fallait tirer,' said someone. But if he had. Bond would have 
drawn the nine and disimproved down to a four. It all de- 
pended on what the next card, its pink tongue now hiding its 
secret in the mouth of the shoe, might have been. Bond 
didn't wait to see. He smiled a thin, rueful smile round the 
table to apologize to his fellow losers, shovelled the rest of 
his chips into his coat pocket, tipped the huissier who had 
been so busy emptying his ash-tray over the hours of play, 
and slipped away from the table towards the bar, while the 
croupier triumphantly announced, 'Un banco de. quatre- 
Vingt mille francs! Faites vos jeux, messieurs! Un banco de 
quatre-vingt mille Nouveaux Francs.' To hell with it I thought 
Bond. Half an hour before he had had a small fortune in his 

33 



pocket. NoWj through a mixture of romantic quixotry and 
sheer folly he had lost it all. Well, he shrugged, he had asked 
for a nigljt to remember. That was the first half of it. What 
would be the second? 

■ The girl was sitting by herself, with half a bottle of Bol- 
;linger in firont of her, staring fnoodily at nothing. She barely 
lopked up when Bond slipped into the chair next to hers and 
said, 'Well, I'in afiraid our syndicate lost again. I tried to get 
it back. I went "avec". I should have left that brute alone, 
I stood on a five and he had a,'!bfi(ie'* and then drew a, 
nine.' .. 

She said dully, 'You should hdve drawn on the five. I 
always do.' She reflected. 'Biit tbs^ you would have had a 
four. What was the next card?' >i ' 

'I didn't wait to see. I came to look for you.' 

She gave him a sideways, appraising glance. ' Why did you 
rescue me when I made tiie '' coup du d&honneur''?* 

Bond shrugged. 'Beautiful girl in distress. Besides, we 
made fidends between Abbeville and Montreuil this evening. 
You drive like an angel.' He smiled. 'But I don't think you'd 
have passed ; me if I'd been paying attention. I was doing 
about ninety and not bothering to keep an eye on the mirror. 
And I was thinking of other things.' 

The gambit succeeded. Vivacity carue into her face and 
voice. 'Oh, yes. I'd have beaten you anyway. I'd have passed 
you in the villages. Besides' - there was an edge of bittacness 
in her vpice - 'I woiild always be able to beat you. You want 
to stay alive.' ; : 

Oh, lord! thought Bond. One of thpsel A girl with a wing, 
perhaps two wings, down. He chose to let the remark lie. 
The half-bottle of Krug he had ordered , came. After the 
huissier had half filled the glass, Bond topped it to the brim. 
He held it towards her without exaggeration. 'My name is 
Bond, James Bond. Please stay alive, at any rate for tonight' : 
He dmik the ^ass down at one long gulp and .filled it again, 

She looked at him gravely,' considering him. Then she also 
drank. She said, 'My name is Tracy. That is short for all the 
names you.wtretold at thereception in the hotel. Teresa was 
■ ' ' ■ 34 ■ ■ - . 



a saint. I am not a saint. The manager is perhaps a romantic. 
He told me of yonr inquiries. So shall we go now? I am not 
interested in conversation. And you have earned your re- 
ward.' , ■ 

She rose abruptly. So did Bond, confused. 'No. I will go 
alone. You can come later. The number is 45. There, if you 
wishj you can make the most expensive piece of love of your 
life. It will have cost you forty mpion fi?E»cs. I, hope it will 
be worth it.* . ' • • ' ■ ; 



35 



9 



4 

All Cats are Grey 

SHE WAS waiting in the big double bed, a single sheet pulled 
up to her chin. The fair hair was spread out like golden wiags 
under, the single reading light that was the only light in the 
roonij and the blue eyes blazed with a fervour that, in other 
girls, in other beds, James Bond would have interpreted. But 
this one wais in the grip of stresses he could not even guess at. 
He locked the door behind him and came over and sat on the 
edge of her bed and put one hand firmly on the httle hiE that 
was her left breast. 'Now listen, Tracy,' he began, meaning 
to ask at least one or two questions, find out something about 
this wonderful girl who did hysterical things like gambling 
without the money to meet her debts, driving like a potential 
suicide, hinting that she had had enough of life. 

But the girl reached up a swift hand that smelt of Guer- 
lain's 'Ode' and put it across his lips. 'I said "no conversa- 
tion". Take off those clothes. Make love to me. You are 
handsome and strong. I want to remember what it can be 
like. Do anything you like. And tell me what you like and 
what you would like firom me. Be rough with me. Treat me 
Uke the lowest whore in creation. Forget everything else. No 
questions. Take me.' 

An hour later, James Bond sUpped out of bed without 
waking her, dressed J)y the light of the promenade lights 
filtering between the curtains, and went back to his room. 

He showered and got in between the cool, rough French 
sheets of his own bed and switched off his thinking about her. 
AH he remembered, before sleep took him, was that she had 
said when it was all over, 'That was heaven, James. Will you 
please come back when you wake up. I must have it once 
ijiore.' Then she had turned over on her side away from him 
and, without answering his last endearments, had gone to 
sleep - but not before he Jiad heard that she was crying. 

36 



What the hell? All cats are grey in the dark. 
True or false? 
Bond slept. 

At eight o'clock he woke her and it was the same glorious 
thing again. But this time hfe thought that she held him to 
her more tenderly, Idssed him not only with passion but with 
affection. But, after, when they should have been making 
plans about the day, .about where to have lunch, when to 
bathe, she was at first evasive and then,- wlien he pressed her, 
childishly abusive. ■ • 

' Get to hell away from me ! Do you hear? You've had what 
you wanted. Now get out! ' 

'Wasn't it what you wanted too?' 

'No. You're a lousy goddam lover. Get out!' 

Bond recognized the edge of hysteria, at least of despera- 
tion. He dressed slowly, waiting for the tears to come, for the 
sheet that now covered her totally to shake with sobs. But 
the tears didn't come. That was bad! In some way this girl 
had come to the end of her tether, of too many tethers. Bond 
felt a wave of affection for her, a sweeping urge to protect 
her, to solve h^r problems, make her happy. With his hand 
on the door-knob he said sofliy, 'Tracy. Let me help you. 
You've got some troubles. That's not the end of the world. 
So have I, So has everyone else,' 

The dull cliches fell into the silent, sun-barred room, like 
clinker in a grate. 

'GotoheUl' 

In the instant of opening and closing the door. Bond 
debated whether to bang it shut, to shake her out of her 

mood, or to close it softly. He dosed it softly. Harshness 
would do no good with this girl. She had had it, somehow, 
somewhere - too much of it. He went off down the corridor, 
feeling, for the fitst time in his life, totally inadequate. 

* ■ ^ ^ 

(The Bombard thrashed on up river. It had passed the 
marina and, with the narrowing banks, the current was 
stronger. The two thugs in the stem still kept their quiet eyes 

37 



on Bond. In the bows, the girl still held her proud profile 
into tie wind Uke the figure-head on a saiUng ship. In Bond, 
tie only warmth was in his contact with ber back and his 
hand on tlie haift of liis, knife. Yet, in a curious way, he felt 
closer to her, far closer, than in tie transports of the night 
before, Sornehow he felt she was as much a prisoner as he was. 
pow? Why? Way ahead lie lights of the Vieux Port, once close 
to the seaj but now left behind by some quirk of the Channel 
' cvirrents thait ha;d tiuilt up the approaches to the riverj shone 
sparsely. Before many years they would go out arid a new 
harbour, nearer the mouth of the river, would be built for 
the deep-sea trawlers that served Royale with their soles and 
lobsters; and crabs and prawns. On tbdsi side of the ligits were 
occasional gaunt jetties built out into tihie river by private 
yacht-owners.. Behind them were villas that would have names 
like 'RosaUe', *Toi et Moi', 'Nid Azur' and 'Nouvelle. 
Vague'. James Bond nursed the knife and smelt the ' Ode' 
that came to him above the stink of mud and seaweed firom 
the river banks. His teeth had neyer chattered before. Now 
they chattered. He stopped them and went back to his me- 
mories.) ' 

Normally, breakfast was aii important part of Bond's day, 
but;today he had barely noticed what he was eating, hurried 
tirbugh tie meal and sat gazing out of Ms window and across 
the promenade, chain-smoking and wondering abdut the girl. 
He knew nothing positive .about her, not even her nationality. 
The Mediterranean was in her name, yet she was surely 
neither Italian not Spanish. Het EngUsh was faultless and 
her clothes and the way she wore them were the products of 
expensive surroundings - perhaps a Swiss finishing school. • 
She didn't smoke, seemed to drink only sparingly, and there 
was no sign of drugtaking. There had bot even been sleeping:, 
piUs beside the:bed or in, her bathroom. She could only be 
abotit twenty-fiye, yet she. niade love with tie fervour and 
expertness of a girl. who, in the American phrase, had 'gone ; 
the rout6'. She hadn't laughed once, had hardly smiled. She 
seaned in thb grip of some deep melanchoiy, some form of 
spiritual accidie that made life, on her awn adniissipn, no 



longer worth living. And yet there were none of those signs 
that one associates with the hysteria of female neurotics - the 
unkempt hair and sloppy make-up^ the. atmosphei;e of disarray 
and chaos, they create around diem. On the contraryj she 
seemed to possess an ice-cold will, authority over herself 
and an exact idea of what she wanted and where she was going. 
And where was that? In Bond's book she had desperate in- 
tentions, most likely suicide, and last night had been the last , 
fling. 

I lie looked down at the little iwhite car tliat was' now not 
fiu- from his in the parking lot. Someliow he must stick close 
to her, watch over her, at least until he was satisfied that his 
deadly ■ conclusions we?e wrongj As a first step, Ji?:rang down 
to the conderge and ordered a drive-yourself Simca Arondc: 
Yes, it should be delivered at once and left in the parking lot. 
He would bring his international driving licence and green 
insm'ance card down to the concierge who would kindly com-^ 
plete the formalities, ■ , 

Bond shaved and dressed and took thci papers down and 
returned to his room. He stayed there, wajching the entrance 
and the little white car until 4.30 in the afternoon. Then, at 
last, she appeared, in the black and white striped bathing- 
wrap, and Bond ran down the corridor to the hft. It was not 
difficult to fbllow her as she drove along the promenade and 
left her car in one of the parking lots, and it was also no pro- 
blem for tlie little anonymous 2CV Citroen that follo\yed.' 
Bond. :, ; ■ ' , 

And then had been set up the ttain o^ the watchers: and the 
watched; which was now drawing to its mystBtious climax 
as the little Bombard thrashed its wky up lie River Eoyale 
under the stars. ■ ■ 

What to make ofit all? Had she been a witting or unwitting 
bait? Was this a kidnapping? If so, of one or of both? Was it 
blackmail? The revenge of a husband or another lover? di; 
was it to be murder? 

Bond was still raking his mind for clues when the helms- 
man turned the Bombard in a wide curve across the current 
towards a batteted;*; skeletal jetty that prpjeeted from the 



muddy bank into the stream. He pulled up under its lee, a 
powerful flashlight shone down on them out of the darkness, 
a rope clattered down and the boat was hauled to the foot 
of muddy wooden steps. One of the thugs climbed ouf first, 
followed by the girl, the white bottom of her bathiag dress 
lascivious below Bond's coat, then Bond, then the second 
thug. Then the Bombard backed quickly away and continued 
up rivetj presumably, thought Bond, to its legitimate moor- 
ing in the Vieux Port. 

There were two more men, of much the same build as tlie 
others, on the jetty. No words were spoken as, surrounded, 
the girl and Bond were escorted up the small dust road that 
led away from the jetty tlirough the sand dunes. A hundred 
yards &om the river, tucked away in a gully between tall 
dunes, liiere was a glimmer of Ught. When Bond got nearer 
he saw that it came J&om one of those giant corrugated altmii- 
niuia transport-trucks that, behind an articulated driver's 
cabin, roar down the arterial routes of France belching diesel 
smoke and hissing angrily with their hydraulic brakes as they 
shake through the tpwns and villages. This one was a glinting, 
polished affair. It looked new, but might just be well cared 
for. As they approached, the man vrith the flashlight gave 
some signal, and an oblong of yeUow light promptly blazed 
as the caravan-like door in the rear was thrown open. Bond 
fingered his knife. Were the odds in any way withiQ reason? 
They were not. Before he climbed up the steps into the 
interior. He glanced down at the numberplate. The com- 
merdal licence said, 'MarseUle-RhShe. M. Draco. Appareils 
' filectriques. 397694.' So! One more riddle! 

Inside it was, thank God, warm. A passage-way led be- 
tween stacked rows of cartons marked with the famous names 
of television manufacturers. Dummies? There were also 
folded chairs and the signs of a disturbed game of cards. This 
was presumably used as the guard-room. Then, on both sides, 
the doors of cabins. Tracy was waiting at one of the doors. 
She held out his coat to him, said an expressionless 'Thank 
you' and dosed the door after Bond had caught a brief 
glimpse of a luxurious interior. Bond took his tinie putting on 

•40 



his coat! The single man with the gun who was follo wing him 
said impatientlyv 'Allez!' Bond wondered whether to jump 
him. But, behind, the othdx three men stood watching. Bond 
contented himself with a mild 'Merde k vous ! ' and went ahead 
to the aluminium door that presumably sealed off the third 
and forward compartment in this strange vehicle. Behind this 
door lay the answer. It was probably one man - the leader. 
This might be the only chance. Bond's right hand was akeady 
grasping the hilt of Ws knife in his trpiBier 'popkrt. Now He 
put out his left hand arid, in one swirl of motion, leaped, 
through, kicked the door shut behind him, and crouched, the 
knife held for throwing. , , 

Behind, him he felt titie guard thxow himself at the door, 
but Bond had his badk to it and it held.. The man, ten feet 
away behind'the desk, within easy range for the knife, called 
out something,' an order, a cheerful, gay order in some 
language Bond had never heard. The ptessurp on the door 
ceased. The inan smiled a wide, a chsuming smile that cracked 
his creased )valnut of a face in two. He got to his feet and 
slowly raised his hands. 'I surrender. "And I am now a much 
bigger target. But do not MU me, I beg of you. At least not 
Tintil we have had a stiff whisky and soda and a talk. Then I 
wiU give you th,e choice again-. OK? * 

Bond rose to his full height. He smiled back. He couldn't 
help it. The man had such a delightful face, so lit with 
humour and mischief and magnetism that, at least in the 
man.'s present role, Bond could po more have killed him thaii 
he could have killedj well, Tracy. , 

There was a calendaf hanging on the wall beside the man. 
Bond wanted to let off steani against something, anything.. 
He said, 'September the sixteenth,' and jerked his right hand 
forward in the underhand throw. The knife flashed aaoss the 
room, missed the man by about a yacd, and stuck, quivering, 
half-way down the page of tbe calendar. . 

The man turned and looked inquisitively at the calendar. 
He laughed out loud. 'Actually the fifteenth. But quite re- 
spectable. I- nijist set you against iny men one of these days.: 
And I might even bet on you. It would teach them a lesson.' 



He came out from behind his desk, a smallish, middle-aged i 
man ■with a bromi, crinkled face. He was dressed in tlie sort i 
of comfortable dark blue suit Bond lumself wore. The chest 
and the arms bulged with muscle. Bond noticed the fullness 
of the cut of the coat under the arm-pits. Builtfor guns? The 
man held out a hand. It was warm and firm and dry. 'Marc- 
Ange Draco is my name. You have heard of it?' 

'No.' 

'Aha! But I have heard of yours. It is Commander James 
Bond. You have a decoration called the CMG. You are a 
member, an important' member, of Her Majesty's Secret 
Service. You have been taken off youi usual duties and you 
are on temporary assignment abroad.' The impish face creased 
with delight. 'Yes?' " 

James Bond, to cover his confusion, walked across to the 
calendar, verified that he had in fact pierced the fifteenth, 
pulled out the knife and slipped it back in his trouser pocket. 
He turned and said, 'What makes you think so?' 

The man didn't answer. He said, 'Come. Come and sit 
down. I have much to talk to you about. But first the whisky 
and soda. Yes?' He indicated a comfortable armchair across 
the desk from Ms own, put in front of it a large silver box 
containing various kinds of cigarettes, and went to a metal 
filing cabinet against the wall and opened it. It contained no j 
files. It was a complete and compact bar. With efficient, i 
housekeeperly movementsi he took out a bottle of Pinchbottle 
Haig, another of I. W. Harper's Bourbon, two pint glasses j 
that looked like Waterfordj a bucket of ice cubes, a siphon 
of soda and a flagon of iced water. One by one he placed these 
on tibie desk betweeii his chair and Bond's. Then, while Bond , 
poured himself a stiff Bourbon and water with plenty of ice, 
he went and sat down across the desk from Bond, reached 
for the Haig and said, looking Bond very directly ia the eye, 
'I learned who you are from a good fiiend in the Deuxieme 
in Paris. He is paid to give me such information when I want 
it. I learned it very early this morning. I am ia the opposite 
camp to yours'elf - not directly opposite. Let us say at a 
tangent on the field,' He paused. He lifted his glass. He said 

42 



with much seriousness^ *I am now going to establish con- 
fidence with you. By the only means, I am going once again 
to place my life in your hands.' 

He drank. So did Bond. In the filing cabinet, in its ice- 
box, tiie hum of the generator broke in on what Bond sud- 
denly knew was gokig to be an important moment of truth. 
He didn't know what the truth was going to be. He didn't 
think it was going to be bad. But he had an instinct that, some- ■ 
how, perhaps because he had conceived respect and affection 
for this man, it was going to mean deep involvement for 
himself. 

The generator stopped. 

The eyes in the wsdnut face held his. 

'I am the head of the Union Corse.' 



43 



,5 



. : ,; ' ~ : The Qapu - 

The union corse ! Now at least some of the mystery was 
explained. Bond looked across the deisk into the brown eyes 
, thatwerenov? shrewdly watching his reactions while his mind , 
.flicked through the file that bore the innocent titlcj 'The 
Union Corise', more.deadly and pertapS; eyen older ^an the 
Unione Sicilianoj the Mafia. He knew that it controlled most 
organized crime throughout metropolitan France and her 
colonies - protection rackets^ smuggling, prostitution and the 
suppression of rival gangs. Only a few montihs ago a certain 
Rossi had been shot dead in a bar in Nice. A year before thatj 
a Jean GiudiceDi had been liquidated after sevfeial previous 
attempts bad failed. Both these men had been known pre- 
tenders to the throne of Capu - the ebulUent, cheerful maii 
who now sat so J)eacefully across the table fi:om Bond. Then 
there was this mysterious busings of Rommel's treasure, 
supposed to be bidden benealix the sea somewhfere off Bastia. 
In 1948 a Czedi diver called Sleigh, who' bad been in the 
Abwehr, and had got on the track of it, was warned off by the 
Union and then vanished off the face of the earth. Quite 
recently the body of a young French diyetj Andi;e Mattel, 
•was found riddled with bullets by the ro^iside near Bastia. 
He had foolishly boasted in the local bars that he knew thc' 
whereabouts of the treasure and had come to dive for it. Did 
. Marc-Ange know the secret of this treasure? Had he been 
responsible for the killing of these two divers? Thelitde village 
of Calenzana in, the Balagne boasted of having produced more 
gangsters than any other village in Corsica pid of being 'in 
consequen,<!?p one, of the most prosperous. The local mayor 
had hddof&ce for fifty-six years - the longest reigrung mayor 
in France. Marc-Ange would surely' be a son of that little 
community, knoW the secrets of that famous mayor, know, 
for. ipstance, of that ' big Anierican gangster who had just 



returned to discreet retiremeitit in the village after a highly 
profitable career in the States. 

: It would be fun to drop some of these names casually in 
tibas quiet little room - fun to teU MiEu:<>Ange thatBond knew ' 
of the old abandoned jetiy called the Port of Grovani near the 
village of Galena^ and of the . ancient silver mine called 
Argfeiitella in the hills behind, whose maze of underground 
tunnels accommodates one of the great- Wodd junctions in 
the heroin traflSic, Yes, it WQuld be fun to fiaghten his captor 
in exdhange for the ftight he had given Bond. But better 
keep this ammunition in reserve until more had been re- 
vealed! For the time beingit was . interesting to note that this, 
was Marc-Ange Draco's traveslling headquarters. His contact 
ill the Deuxi&me BUreku would be an essential tip-off man. 

; Bond and the girl had been 'sent for' for some purpose that 
was still to be annoimced. The 'botrowiag' of lie Bombard 

, rescue-boat would have been a simjplffmatter of finance ih the 
right quarter, perhaps accompanied by a 'pot de via'' for th^ 
coastguards to look the other way. The guards were Corsicans. 
On reflectionj that was anyway what they looked like. The 
whole operation was. simple for an organization as powerful 
as the Union - as simple in Frah.ce as it would have been for 
the Mafia in mpst of Italy. And now for more veils to be 
lifted! James Bond sipped his drink and watched the other 
man's face with respect. This was one of the greiat profes- 
sionals of the world! *. 

(Hbw typical of Corsica, Bond thpt^ht, that, their top 
bandit should beat the name of an angel! He.remembereid 
that two otiier famoiB Cgirsiean gangsters had been called 
'Gr^cieux' and 'Toussaint' - 'All-Saints'.) Marc-Ange 

. spoke. He spoke excellent but occasionally rather clumsy 
English, , as if he had been wpil taught but had little occa- 
sion to use the language. 'He- said, 'My dear Commander, 
everything I am going to discuss with you will please 
remain behind your Herkos Odonton. You know the ex- 
pression? No?' The wide smile lit up his face. 'Then, if I 
may say so, your education was incoinplete. It is from the 
classical Greek, It means literally "the hedge of the tfeeth*',' 

45 



It was the Greek equivaleat of your "top secret". Is that 
agreed?' 

Bond shrugged. 'If you tell me secrets that affect my pro- 
fessioiij I'm afiaid I shall have to pass them on.' 

'That I fully comprehend. What I wish to discuss is a 
personal matter. It concerns my daughter, Teresa.' 
, Good God! The plot was indeed thickening! Bond con- 
cealed his surprise. He said, 'Then I agree.' He smiled. 
'"Herkos Odonton" it is.' 

'Thank you. You are a man to trust. You would have to 
be, in your profession, but I see it also in your face. Now then.' 
He lit a Caporal and sat back in his chair. He gazed at a point 
on the alxrminium wall above Bond's head, only occasionally 
looking into Bond's eyes when he wished to emphasize a 
point. 'I was married once only, to an English gicl, an 
English governess. She was a romantic. She had come to 
Corsica to look for bandits ' - he-smiled - 'rather like some 
EngUsh women adventure into the desert to look for sheiks. 
She ejsplained to me later that she must have been possessed 
by a subconscious desire to be raped. Well ' - this time he 
didn't smile - 'she found me in the"mountains and she was 
raped - by me. The police were after me at the time, they 
have been for most of my life, and the girl was a grave en- 
cumbrance. But for some reason she refused to leave me. 
There was a wildness in her, a love of the imconventional, 
and, for God knows what reason, she liked the months of 
being chased from cave to cave, of getting food by robbery 
at ni^t. She even learned to skin apd cook a moufldon, those 
are our mountain sheep, and even eat the animal, which is 
tough as shoe leather and about as palatable. And in those 
crazy months, I came to love this girl and I smuggled her 
away from the island to Marseilles and married her.* He 
paused and looked at Bond. 'The result, my dear Commander, 
was Teresa, my only child.' 

So, thought Bond. That explained the curious mixture the 
girl was - the Idnd of wild 'lady' that was so puzzling in her. 
What a complex of bloods and temperaments ! Corsican Eng- 
lish. No wonder he hadn't been able to define her nationality, 

46 



'My wife died ten years ago ' - Marc-Ange held up Ids 
hand, not wanting sympathy - 'and I had the girl's education 
finished in Switzerland. J was already rich and at that time 
I was elected Oapu, ^iat is cHef, of fee Union, and became , 
infinitely richer - by means, my dear Commander, which 
you can guess but need not inquire into. The girl was - how 
•do you say? - that charming expression, "the apple of my 
eye", and I gave her all sh? wanted. But she was a wild one^ 
a. wild bird, without a proper, hornei or^ since I was alwajrs on 

'. the move, without proper supervision, fbrough her scLloqI in , 
Switzerland, she entered the fast international set ttutt one 
reads of in the newspapers - the South American millionaires, 
the Indian princelings, the Paris English and Americans, the 
playboys of Cann^; iEtiid Gstaad. She was always getting in 
and out of scrapes tod scandals, and when I remonstrated 
with her, cut off her allowance, she would commit some even ' 
grosser folly - to spite me, I suppose.'' He paused and looked ' 
at Boadandiiow there Was a terrible misery in thehappy face. 
'And yet all tile while, behind her bravado, the mother's side 
of her blood was maldng her hate herself, despise herself 
more and ihore, and as I how see it, the worm of self-destruc- 
tion had somehow got a hold inside her and, behind the wild, 
playgirl fa9ade, was eating away what I can only describe as 
her soul.' He looked at Bond. 'You know that this can happen, 
my friend ^ to men and to women. They bum the heart out 
of themselves by living too greedily, and suddenly they 
examine their lives and see that they are worthless. They have 
had everything, eaten all the sweets of life at one great 
banquet, and there is nothingi left. She made what I now see 
was a desperate attempt to get'back on the rails, so to speak. 
She went oft without telling me, and married, perhaps with , 
die idek of settling down. But' tie man, a worthless Italiaii 
called Vicenzo, Coimt Giulio di Vicenzo, took as much of 
her rhoney as he could lay his hands on and deserted her, 
leaving her with a girl chUd. I purchased a divorce and bought 
a small chateau for my daughter in the Dordogne and in- • 
stalled her there,, and for once, vyith the ba6y and a pretty 

' garden to look Eiftjar, she seemed almost at peabe. And then, 



my friend, six months ago, the baby died - died of that most 
terrible of all children's ailments, spinal meningitis.' 

There -was silence in the little metal room. Bond thought 
of the girl a few yards away down the corridor. Yes. He had 
been near the truth. He had seen some of this tragic story 
in the calm desperation of the girl. She had in4eed come to 
the end of the road! ■ 

Marc-Ange got slowly up from Ms chair and came round 
and poured out more whisky for himself and for Bond. He 
said, 'Forgive me. I am a poor host. But the telling of this 
story, which I have always kept locked up inside me, tb 
another man, has been a great relief.* He put a hand on 
Bond's shoulder. 'You understand that?' 

'Yes. I understand that. But she is a fine girl. She stUl has 
nearly all her life to live. Have you thought of psychoanalysis? 
Of her church? Is she a Catholic?' 

'No. Her mother would not have it. She is Presbyterian. 
But wait while I finish the story.' He went back to his chair 
and sat down heavily. 'After the tragedy, she disappeared. 
She took her jewels and went off in that little car of hers, and 
I heard occasional news of her, selling the jewels and living 
furiously all over Europe, with her old set. Naturally I 
followed her, had her watched when I could, but she avoided 
all my attempts to meet her and talk to her. Then I heard 
from one of my agents that she had reserved a room here, at 
the Splendide, for last night, and I hurried down firom Paris ' - 
he waved a hand - 'in this, because I had a presentiment of 
tragedy.^ You see, this was where we had spent the summers 
in her childhood and she had always loved it. She is a won- 
derful swimmer and she was tdmost literally in love with the 
sea. And, when I got the news, I suddenly had a dreadful 
memory, the memory of a day when she had been naughty 
and had been locked in her room aU afternoon instead of 
going bathing. That night she had said to her mother, quite 
calmly, "You made me very unhappy keeping me away from 
the sea. One day, if I get really unhappy I shall swim out into 
the sea, down the path of the moon or the sun, and go on 
swimming tmtil I sink. So there!" Her mother told me the 

48 



story and we laughed over it together^ at the childish tan- 
trum. But now I suddenly remembered agaia the occasion 
and it seemed to me that the childish fantasy might well have 
stayed with her, locked away deep down, and that now, 
wanting to put an end to herself^ she had resurrected it and 
was going to act on it. And so, my dear friendj I had her 
closely watched from the moment she arrived. Your gentle- 
manly conduct in the casino, for which ' - he looked across at 
Bond - 'I now deeply thank you, was reported to me, as of 
course were your later movements together.' He held up 
his hand as Bond shifted with embarrassment. 'There is 
nothing to be ashamed of, to apologize for, in what you did 
last night. A man is a man and, who knows? - but I shall 
come to that later. What you did, the way you behaved 
in general, may have been the^ beginning of some kind of 
therapy.' 

Bond remeijibered how, ia the Bombard, she had yielded 
when he leaned against her. It had been a tiny reaction, but 
it had held more affection, more warmth, than all the physical 
ecstasies of the night. Now, suddenly he had an inkling of 
why he might be here, where the root of the mystery lay, and 
he gave an involuntary shudder, as if someone had walked 
over his grave. 

Marc-Ange continued, 'So I put in my inquiry to my 
I friend from the Deuxieme, at six o'clock this momiag. At 
eight o'clock he went to his ofiSce and to the central files and 
by rune o'clock he had reported to me fidly aijout you - by 
radio. I have a high-powered station in this vehicle.' ,He 
smiled. 'And that is another of my secrets that I dehver into 
your hands. The report, if I may say so, was entirely to your 
credit, both as an officer in year Service, and, more important, 
as a man - a man, that is, in the terins that I understand the 
word. So I reflected. I reflected all through this morning. 
And, in the end, I gave orders that you were both to be 
brought to me here.' He made a throw-away gesture with 
his right hand. 'I need not tell you the details of my instruc- 
tions. You yourself saW them in operation. You have been 
inconvenienced. I apologize. You have perhaps thought 

49 . 



yourself in danger. Forgjivc me. I only trust tiiat my men 
behaved with correctnesSj with finfcsse.' 

Bond smiled. *I am very glad to have met you. If the 
introduction had to be effected at the point of two automatics, 
that will only make it all the mor6 niemorable. The whole 
alBfair y?as certainly executed with neatness and expedition.' 

Marc-Ange's expression was rueful. 'Now you are being ^ 
sarcastic. But believe me, my ftiehd, drastic measures were 
. necessary. I knew they were.' He reached to the top drawer 
of his desk, took out a sheefof writing-paper and passed it 
over to Bond. 'And now, if you read tiiat, you will agree with 
me. That letter was Itoded , in to the concierge of the Spleh- 
dide at 4.30 this afternoon for posting to me in Marseilles, 
when Teresa "went out and you followed her. You suspected 
something? You also feared^for.her? Readit, please.' 

Bond took the letter. He said, 'Yes. I was worried about 
her. She is a girl worth worrying about,' He held up the 
letter. It contained only a few words, written dearly, with 
decision. 

. Dear Papa, ■ ■ ■ ■ 

I am sorry, but I have had enough. It is only sad because 
tonight I met a man who might have changed my mind. 
He is an Englishman called' James Bond: Please find him 
and pay him 20,000 New Francs whidh I owe him, And 
thank him from me. 

This is nobody's feult but my own. 

Goodbye and forgive me. 

: TRACY 

Bond didn't look at the rplan who had received this letter. 
He slid it back to him across the desk. He took a deep drink 
of the whisky and reached for the bottie. He said, Tes, I 
see/ 

'She likes to call herself Tracy. She thinks T^esa sounds 

too grand.* ■• ■■ '>■ ■ 

'Yes.' : ; • , 

'Commander Bond.' There was now a terrible urgency in 

the man's voice - urgency, authority and appeal. 'My friend, 
• 50 



you have heard the whole story and now you have seen the 
evidence. Will you help me? Will you help me save this girl? 
It is my only chanccj that you will give her hope. That you 
will give her a reason to live. Will you?' 

Bond kept his eyes on the desk in front of him. He dared 
not look up and see the expression on this man's face. So he 
had been right, right to fear that he was going to become 
involved in all this private trouble! He cursed under his 
breath. The idea appalled him. He was no Good Samaritan. 
He was no doctor for wounded birds. What she needed, he 
said fiercely to himself, was the psychiatrist's couch. All 
right, so she had taken a passing fancy to him and he to her. 
Now he was going to be asked, he knew it, to pick her up and 
carry her perhaps for the rest of his life, haunted by the 
knowledge, the unspoken blackmail, that, if he dropped her, 
it wouli almost certainly be to kill her. He said glumly, 'I 
do not see that I can help. What is it you have in mind? ' He 
picked up his glass and looked into it. He drank, to give him 
courage to look across the desk into Marc-Ange's face. 

The man's soft brown eyes glittered with tension. The 
creased dark sMn round the mouth had sunk into deeper 
folds. He said, holding Bond's eyes, 'I wish you to pay court 
to my daughter and marry her. On the day of the marriage, I 
will give you a personal dowry of one million pounds in 
gold.' 

James Bond exploded angrily. 'What you ask is utterly 
impossible. The girl is sick. What she needs is a psychiatrist. 
Not me. And I do not want to marry, not anyone. Nor do I 
want a million pounds. I have enough money for my needs. 
I have my profession.' (Is that true? What about that letter of 
resignation? Bond ignored the private voice.) 'You must 
understand all this.' Suddenly he could not bear the hurt in 
the man's face. He said, softly, 'She is a wonderful girl. I 
will do all I can for her. But only when she is well again. 
Then I would certainly like to see her again - very much. 
But, if she thinks so well of ine, if you do, then she must first 
get well of her own accord. That is the only way. Any doctor • 
would tell you so. She must go to some clinic, the best there 

51 



isj in Switzerland probably, and bury her past. She must 
want to live again. Then, only then, would there be any 
point in our meeting again.' He pleaded with Marc-Ange, 
'You do understand, don't you, Marc-Ange? I am a ruthless 
man. I admit it. And I have not got the patience to act as 
anyone's n,urse, man or woman. Your idea of a cure might' 
only drive her into deeper despair; Tfoti must see that I 
caimot take the responsibility, however much I am attracted 
by your daughter.' Bond ended lamely, 'Wliich I am.' 

The man said resignedly, 'I imderstand you, my ftiend. , 
And I vrill not importune you with further , ar'guments. I 
wiU try and act in the way you suggest. But will you please 
do one further favour for me? It is now pine o'clock. Will you 
please take her out to dinner tonigiht? Talk to to as you 
please, but show her that she is wanted, that you have affec^ 
tion for her. Her car is here and her clothes. I have had them 
brought. If only you can persuade her that you wotild like 
to see her ag^, I think 1 may be able to do the rest. Will you 
do tliis for me?' ' 

Bond thought, God, what an evening! But he Smiled with 
all the warmth he. could summon. 'But of course. I wotild 
love to do that. But I am booked on the first morning flight 
from Le Touquettomortow morning. Will you be responsible 
for her from then?' 

'Certainly, my friend. Of course I will do that.' Marc- 
Ange brusquely wiped a hand across his eyes. 'Fo^giye me. 
fiut you have given me hope, at the end of a long night.' 
He straigjitened his shoulders and suddenly leaned across 
the desk and put his hands decisively down. 'I will not thank 
you. I cannot, but tell me, my dear friend, is there anything 
in this world that I can do for you, now at this njoment? I 
have great resources, great knowledge, great power. Tbey 
are all yours. Is there nothing I can do for you?' 

Bond had a iBash of inspiration. He smiled broadly. 'There 
is a piece of information I want. There is a man called Blofeld, 
Ernst Stavrp Blofdd. You will have heard of htm. I wish to 
know if he is alive and where he is to be found.' 

Marc-Ange's face underwent a remarkable change. Now 
52 



the bandit, cold, crudj avenging, looked out through the 
eyes that had suddenly gone as hard as brovm'.opals. 'Aha!' ■ 
he said thoughtfully. 'The Blofeld. Yes, he is certainly alive. 
Only recently he suborned three of my rilen, bribed them 
away fipra the Union. He has done this to me before. Three 
pf tiie mdnbexs of the old spectre were taken &om the 
Union. Come, let us find out what we can.' 

There was a single black telephone on the desk. He picked 
up the recdvec and at once Bond heard tihe soft crackle of 
the operator responding. 'Damm u commcmdu' Marc-Ange 
put the receiver back. 'I have asked for my local headquarters 
ia Ajacdo. We will have them in five minutes. But I must 
speak fast. The pplice may know my frequency, though I 
change it every week. Bui the Corsican dialect helps.' Tie 
telephone burred. When Marc-Ange picked up the receiver. 
Bond could hear the zing and crackle he knew so well. Marc- 
Ange spoke, in a voice of rasping au±ority. 'Ecco u Capu. 
Avette nuttizie di Blofeld^ Ernst Stavro? Dteoe sta?' A voice 
cradded thirily. 'Site s^ura? Ma no ezzatu indirizzu?' Mote 
crackle. 'Biion. Satatutto' 

Marc-Ange put back the receiver. He spread his hands 
apologetically. 'AH we know is that he is in Switzerland. We 
bave no esaxX address for him. Will that help? Surdy your 
men there can find iim - if the Swiss S6curit6 will help. But 
they are difficult brutes When it comes to the privacy of a 
resident, particularly if he is rich.' , , • : 

Bond's pulse had quickened with triumph. Got you, you 
bastard! He said enthusiasticallyj 'Thafs wonderful, iVIarc- 
Ange. The rest sBiouldn't be diflScult. We have good fiaends 
in Switzerland.' 

Maf c-Ange smiled bappily at Bond's reaction. He said 
seriously, 'But if things go wrong for yon, on this case or in 
any other way, you will come at once to me. Yes?' He 
pulled open a drawer and hianded a sheet of notepaper over 
to Bond. 'This is my open address. Tdephone or cable to 
me, but put your request or yoiir news in terms that would 
be used in connexion with dectrical appliances. A consign- 
ment of radios is feulty^ Yoii will meet my representative 



at such and such a place, on such and such a date. Yes? You 
understand these tricks^ and anyway' - he smiled slyly - 'I 
believe you are connected with an international export firm. 
"Universal Emort", isn't it?' 

Bond smiled. How did the old devil know these things? 
Should he warn Security? No. This man had become a 
friend. And anyway, all this was Herkos Odonton! 

Marc-Ange said diflBdently, 'And now may I bring in 
Teresa?. She does not know what we have been discussing. 
Let us say it is about one of the South of Fiance jewel rob- 
beries. You represent the insurance company. I have been 
making a private deal with you. You can manage that? 
Good.' He got up and came over to Bond and put his hand 
on Bond's shoulder. 'And thank you. Thank you for every- 
thing.' Then he went out of the door. 

Oh my God! thought Bond. Now for my side of the 
bargain. 



54. 



Bond of Bond Street? 



It tVAs two months later, in London, and James Bond was 
driving lazily up from his Chelsea flat to his headquarters. 

It was nine-thirty in the morning of yet another beautiftil 
day of this beautiful year, but, in Hyde Park, the fragrance 
of burning leaves meant that winter was only just roimd the 
comer. Bond had nothing on his mind except the frustration 
of waiting for Station Z somehow to penetrate the resei'ves of 
the Swiss S^curite and come up with the exact address of 
Blofeld. But their 'friends' in Ziirich were continuing to 
prove obtuse, or, more probably, obstinate. There was no 
trace of any man, either tourist or resident, called Blofeld in 
the whole of Switzerland. Nor was there any evidence of the 
existence of a reborn spectre on Swiss soil. Yes, they fully 
realized that Blofeld was still urgently 'wanted' by the 
governments of the NATO alliance. They had careftilly filed 
all the circulars devoted to the apprehension of this man, 
and for tihe past year, he had been constantly reconfirmed on 
their 'watch' lists at all frontier posts. They were very sorry, 
but unless the SIS could come up with further information 
or evidence about this man, they must assume that the SIS 
was acting on mistaken evidence. Station Z had asked for an 
examination of the secret lists at the banks, a sear^ph through 
those anonymous 'numbered' accounts which conceal the 
owners of most of the fugitive money in the world. This 
request had been peremptorily refused. Blofeld was certainly 
a great criminal, but the Securit6 must point out that such 
information could only be legally obtained if the criminal in 
question was guilty of some crime committed on Federal soil 
and indictable under the Federal Code. It was true that this 
Blofeld had held up Britain and America to ransom by his 
illegal possession of atomic weapons. But this could not 
be considered a crime under the laws of Switzerland, and 

55 



particularly not having regard to Article 47b of the banldng 
laws. So that was that! The Holy , Franc, ?md the Sands 
which backed it, wherever they came firpm, must remain 
untouchable. Wir bitten hoflidist um Entschuldigung! 

Bond wondered if he should get in touch' with Marc- 
Ange. So far, in his report, he had revealqd only a lead into 
the Union Corse, whom he gave, corporately, as the source 
of his information. But he shied away &om this course of 
action, which would surely have, as one consequence, the re- 
Opening with Marc-Ange of the case of Tracy. And that 
: corner of his life, of his heart, he. wanted to leave undisturbed 
for the time being. Their last evening together had passed 
quietly, almost as if they had been old friends, old lovers. 
Bond had said that Universal Export was sending him abroad 
for some time. They would certainly meet when he returned 
to Ejirope. The gkl had accepted this arrang:emeht. She her- 
self had dedded to go away for a rest. She had been doing 
too much. She had been on the verge of a nervous break- 
down. She would wait for him. Perhaps they could go skiing 
together around Christmas time? Bond had been en- 
thusiastic. That nighl^ after a wonderful dinner at Bond's 
little restaurant, tihey had made love, happily, and this time 
without desperation, without tears. Bopd was satisfied that 
the cure had really begun. He felt deeply protective towards 
her. But he knew that their rdationship, and her equanimity, 
rested on a knifp-edge whidi must not be disturbed. 

It was at tihis moment in his reflections that the Syncra- 
, phone in his trouser pocket began to bleep. Bond accelerated 
out of the park and drew up beside the pubHc telephone 
booth at Marble Arch. The Syncraphone had recently been 
introduced and was carried by all officers attached to Head- 
quarters. It was a Ught plastic radio receiver about the size 
of a pocket watch. When ah officer was somewhere in 
London, within a range of ten miles of Headquarters^ he 
could be bleeped on the receiver. When this happened, it was 
his duty to go at once to the nearest telephone and contact 
his office. He Was urgently needed. 

Bond raag his exchange on the. only outside number he 
■ 56' ■ 



was allowed to use, said '007 reporting,' and was at once 
put through, to his secretary. She was a new one. Loelia 
Ponsonby had at last left to marry a dull, but worthy and 
rich member of the Baltic Exchange, and confined her con- 
tacts with her old job to rather yearning Christmas and birth- 
' day cards to the members of the Double-0 Section. But the 
new one, Mary Goodnight, an ex-Wren with blue-black 
hair, blue eyes, and 37-22-35, was a honey and there was a 
private five-pound sweep in the Section as to who would get 
her first. Bond had been lying equal favourite with the ex- 
Royal Marine Commando who was 006 but, since Tracy, 
had dropped out of the field and now regarded himself as a 
rank outsider, though he still, rather bitchily, flirted with her. 
Now he said to her, ' Good morning, Goodnight. What can I 
do for you? Is it war or peace?' 

She giggled tmprofessionally. 'It sounds fairly peaceful, 
as peaceful as a hurry message from upstairs can be. You're 
to go at once to the College of Arms and ask for Giiffon Or.' 

•Or what?' 

'Just Or. Oh, and he's Pursuivant as well, whatever that 
means. He's one of the Heralds. Apparently they've got some 
kind of a line on "Bedlam".' 

'Bedlam' was the code name for the pursuit of Blofeld. 
Bond said respectfully, 'Have they indeed? Then I'd better 
get cracking. Goodbye, Goodnight' He heard her giggle 
before he put the receiver down. 

Now what the hdl? Bond got back into his car, that had 
mercifully not yet attracted the police or the traffic wardens, 
and motored fast across London. This was a queer one. How 
the hell did the College of Arms, of which he knew very little 
except that they hunted up people's family trees, allotted 
coats of arms, and organized various royal ceremonies, get 
into the act? 

The College of Arms is in Queen Victoria Street on the 
fringe of the City. It is a pleasant little Queen Anne back- 
water in ancient red brick with white sashed windows and 
a convenient cobbled courtyard, where Bond parked his car. 
There are horseshoe-shaped stone stairs leading up to an 



impressive entrance, over which, that day, there hung a 
banner showing a splendid heraldic beast, half animal and 
half bird, in gold against a pak blue background. QriffpAj [ 
thought Bond. Made of Or. He went ihrough the door into 
a large gloomy hall whose dark panelling was lined with the 
musty portrait^ of proud-lookiiig gentlemen in ruffs and 
.lace, and from whose . Qornice hung the banners of the 
Commonwealth.. The porter, a kindly, soft-spoken man in- a, 
cherry-coloured tmiform with brass buttons, asked Bond 
what he could do for him. Bond asked for the Griffon Or 
and confirmed that he had an appointment ' 

'Ah yes, sir,' said the porter mysteriously. 'Griffon Or is in 
waiting- this week. That is why his baimer is flying outside. 
This way please, sic.' . 

Bond followed the porter along a passage hung with gleam- 
ing coats of arms in carved wood, up a daiik, cobwebby 
staircase^ and round a cdrner-tb a heavy door over which wis 
written in gold 'Griffon Or Pursuivant' under a representa- 
tion of the said golden griffon. The porter knocked, opened 
the door aiid armounced Bond, and left hini facing, across an 
. unkempt study littered with bboks, . papers, and important- 
looking inscribed p^rchqieiits, the top of a bald, round pink 
head fringed with grizzled: curls. The room smelt like the 
crypt of a church. Bond walked down the narrow lane of 
carpet left between the piles of litter and stood beside the 
single chair that faced the man behind the books on the desk. 
He cleared his throat. The man looked up and the Pick- 
wickian, pince-nez'd face broke into an absent smile. He got 
to his feet and made a little bow. 'Bond,' he said in a voice 
that creakdd like the Hd of an old chest. 'Goromander James 
Bond. Now -then. Bond, Bond, Bond. I think I've got you 
here.' He had kept his finger at the open page of a vast tome. 
He no\v sat down and Bond followed suit. 'Yes, yes, yes. 
Very interesting indeed. Very. But I fear I have to dis- 
appoint youi my dear sir. The title is extinct. Actually it's a 
baronetcy. Most desirable. But no doubt we can estabUsh a 
relationship through a collateral branch. Now then' - he put 
his pince-nez very dose to the page - 'we liave some ten 

58 ■ ■ ■ 



different families of Bonds. The important 6ne ended with 
Sir Thomas 'Bond, a, most, distinguished gentleman. He 
resided, in. Peckham; He had,: alas, no issu?' _ the pince-nez 
gleamed encouragingly at Bdnd ' no legitimate issue that is. 
Of course in' mose days, ahehij morals were inclined to be 
laxer. Now if we could establish some connesdon with 
Peckham ■y':--^ ■ ',• 
*I have no connexion with Peckhajp. Now, I — ' , 
Griffon Or held lip his hand. He said severely, 'Where did 
' your parents ODme&om, if I may ask? That, my dear fellow, 
is the first step in the chain. Then we can go back from there - 
Somerset House, parishiecoiids, old tombT$tbnes,' No -doubt, 
with a good old English name like yours, we will get some- 
where in the end.' . . y 

'My father was a Scot and my mother was Swiss. Biil the 
point is . . .' - 

. ' Quite, quite. You are wondering about the cost of the 
research'. That, my dear - feUow,; we can leave until later. 
But, now tell rtle. From whereabouts in Scotland did your 
father come? That is important. The Scottish records are 
of course less fully documented than those from the South, 
In those days I am forced to admit that bur cousins across 
the border were little more than savages.' Griffon Or bobbed 
[ his head politely. He gave a fleeting and, to Bond's eye, rather 
rfalse smUe. 'Very pleasant savages, of course, very brave 
and all that. But, alaSj very ' weak at keeping up thar, records. 
MorC'iiseful'^with the sword than with the pen, !if I ihay say 
so. But perhaps your grandparents ahd their forebears carne 
from the South?':' ■ ' ^, '■;^;V: : ■['■ 

.'My father c^e from the HigKlancis, froni jiesu: Gleacp4 
But look here . . .' ' 

But Griffon Or T*ks not to be diverted froin th^ scent. 
He pulled another thick book towards him. His finger ran 
down the page of small print. 'Hum. Hum. Hum. Yes, yes. 
Not yoy encouraging, I fear. Bvrjke^s General Armory gives 
more than ten different families bearing your naime. Btit, • 
alas, nothing in Scotland; Not that that means there is no 
Scottish, branch,. Now, perhaps you have .othdr relatives • 
^- ' ' ■ ■ ■ : . .59 



living. So often in these matters there is some distant 
cousin . . Griflfon Or reached into the pocket of the purple- 
flowered silk waistcoat that buttoned almost up to his neat 
bow tie, fished out a small silver snuff-box, offered it to Bond 
and then himself took two tremendous sniffs. Bfe exploded 
twice into an ornate bandana handkerchief. 

Bond took his opportunity. He leaned forward and said 
distinctly and forcibly, 'I didn't come here to talk about 
myself. It's about Blofeld.' 

'What's that?' Griffon Or looked at him in astonishment. 
'You are not interested in your line of descent?' He held 
up an admonishing finger. 'Do you realize, my dear fellow, 
that if we are successful, you may be able to daim direct' - he 
hesitated - 'or at any rate collateral descent fi:om an ancient 
baronetcy founded' - he went back to his first volume and 
peared at it - 'in the year 1658 ! Does it not excite you that a 
possible ancestor of yours was responsible for the name of 
one of the most famous streets in the world - 1 refer of co'urse 
to Bond Street? That was the Sir Thomas Bond, Baronet of 
Peckham in the County of Surrey, who, as you are no doubt 
aware, was Comptroller of the household of the Queen 
Mother, Henrietta Maria. The street was built in 1686 and 
its associations with famous British folk are, of course, well 
known. The first Duke of St Albans, son of Nell Gwynn, 
lived there, as did Laurence Sterne. Boswell's famous dinner 
party took place there, with Johnson, Reynolds, Goldsmith, 
and Garrick being present. Dean Swift and Canning were 
residents at different times, and it is intriguing to recall that 
while Lord. Nelson lived at number 141, Lady Hamilton 
lived at number 145. A^id this, my dear sir, is the great 
thoroughfare of which you bear the name! Do you still wish 
to establish no claim to this vastly distinguished connexion? 
No?' The bushy eyebrows, raised in astonishment, were now 
lowered in furdier admonishment. 'This is the very warp 
and woof of history, my dear Commander Bond.' He reached 
for another volume that lay open on his desk and that he had 
obviously prepared for Bond's ddectation. 'The coat of arms, 
for instance. Surdy that must concern you, be at least of 
' 60 



profound interest to your family, to your own children? 
Yes, here we are. "Argent on a chevron sable three bezants ".' 
He held up the book so that Bond could see. 'A bezant is a 
golden ball, as I am sure you know. Three balls.* 

Bond commented drily, 'That is certainly a valuable 
bonus* - the irony was lost on Griffon Or - 'but I'm afraid 
I am still not interested. And I have no rdatives and no 
children. Now about this man . . 

Griffon Of broke in excitedly, 'And tibds charming motto 
of the hne, "The World is not Enough". You do not wish to 
have the right to it?' 

'It is an excellent motto which I shall certainly adopt,' 
said Bond curdy. He looked pointedly at his watdi. 'Now, 
I'm afraid we really must get down to business. I nave to 
report back to my Ministry.' 

Griffon Or Pursuivant looked genuinely affronted. 'And 
here is a name going back at least to Norman le Bond in 
11801 A fine old English name, though one perhaps originaily 
of lowly origin. The Dictionary of British Surhames suggests 
that the meaning is clearly "husbandman, peasant, churl".' 
Was there an edge of malice in the Griffon's watery eye? 
He added with resignation, 'But, i£ you are not interested in 
your ancestry, iu the womb of your family, then, my dear sir, 
in what can I be of service?' 

At last! James Bond let out a sigh of relief. He said 
patiendy, 'I came here to inquire about a certain Blofeld,- 
Ernst Stavro Blofeld. It seems that your organization ,has 
some information about this man.' 

Griffon Or's eyes were suddenly suspicious. 'But you 
represented yourself as a Commander James Bond. And now 
the name is Blofeld. How does this come about?' 

Bond said idly, 'I am from the Ministry of Defence. 
Somewhere in this building is information about a man called 
Blofeld. Where can I find it?' 

Griffon Or ran a puzzled hand round his halo of curls. 
'Blofeld, is it? Well, well.' He looked accusingly at Bond. 
'Forgive me, but you certainly have wasted plenty of my, 
of the College's time. Commander Bond. It is a mystery 

61 



to me why yoti did no"t mentiQn this man's name before. ■ 
Now let me see, Blofeldj Blofeld. Seem to recall that it carne ; 
up at one of our Chapter meetings the other day, Now who 
had the case? Ah, yes.' He reached for a telephone among the 
nesjcof boofe aridi^^ 



62 



7 



The Hairy Heel of Achilles 

James Bond's heart was still in his boots as he was con- 
ducted agaiA through the musty corridors. Sable Basilisk 
indeed! iWhat kind of a besotted old fogy would this be? 

There came another heavy door with the name in gold 
and this time with a nightmare black monster, with a vicious 
beaky above it. But now Bond was shown ihto a light, clean, 
pleasantly furnished room with attractive print? on thie 
and jneticulous order" anioig. its books. There Was a fiiint 
smell^bf Turkish tobacco. A young man, a few years younger 
than Bond, got up. and came across the room to meet him. 
He was rapier-rslim, with a fine, thin, studious face that was 
saved fiom seriousness by wry lines at the edges of the 
mouth and an ironical glint in lie level eyes. 
/ •Commander Bond?' The handshake was brief and firm. 
'I'd been expecting you. How did you get into the claws of 
our dear Griffon? He's a bit of an enthusiast, I'm afraid. We 
jill are here, of course. But he's getting on. Nice chap, but 
he's a bit dedicated, if you know what I liiean.' 

it was indeed like a college, this place, reflected Bond. . 
M-Uch of the atmosphere one associates with the Senior ' 
Common Room at a University. No' dqubt Griffon Of. 
nientally put down Sable BasiEsfc as a young dilettante who 
was too big for his boots.. He said, 'He seemed very anxious ' 
to estabUsh a connexion between me and Bond Street. Tt 
took some time to persuj^de Mm that I'm perfectly content ,, 
to be an ordiiiary Bond, which, by the way, he^ ra,ther 
churhsUy I thought, said lueant "a diurl*'.' / 

Sable Basilisk laughed. He' sat down behind his desk, 
pulled a file towards him, and gestured Bond to a chair 
beside bim, 'Well, then. Let's get down to business. First of 
all' - he looked Bond very straight id the eye - *I gaither, 
I guess that isi that this is an Intelligence matter of some; 

■ ; ■ 63 



kind. I did my national service with Intelligence in BAOR^ 
so please don't worry about securily. Secondly, we have in 
this buildiiag probably as many secrets as a government 
department - and nastier ones at that. One of our jobs is to 
suggest titles to people who've been ennobled in the Honours 
Lists. Sometimes we're asked to establish ownership to a 
title that has become lost or defunct. Snobbery and vanity 
positively sprawl through our files. Before my time, a certain 
gentleman who had come up firom nowhere, made millions 
in some light industry or another, and had been given a,, 
peerage "for political and public services" - i.e., charities 
and the party funds - suggested that he should take the title 
of Lord Bentley Royal, after the village in Essex. We ex- 
plained that the word Royal could not be used except by the 
reigniug family, but, ratier naughtily I fear, we said that 
"Lord Bentley Common" was vacant.' He smiled. 'See 
what I mean? If that got about, this man would become the 
laughing-stock of the country. Then sometimes we have to 
chase up lost fortunes. So-and-so thinks he's the rightful 
Duke of Blank and ought to have his money. His name 
happens to be Blank and his {uicestors migrated to America 
or Australia or somewhere. So avarice and greed come to 
join snobbery and vanity in these rooms. Of course,* he 
added, putting the record straight, 'that's only the submerged 
tenth of our job. The rest is mostly official stuff for govern- 
ments and embassies - problems of precedence and protocol, 
tie Garter ceremonies, and others. We've been doing it for 
around five hundred years so I suppose it's got its place in 
the scheme of things.' 

* Of course it has,* said Bond staunchly. 'And certainly, so 
far as security is concerned, I'm sure we can be open with 
each other. Now this man Blofeld. Truth of the matter is 
he's probably the biggest crook in the world. Remember 
"that ThunderbaU affair about a year ago? Only some of it 
leaked into the papers, but I can tell you that this Blofeld 
was at the bottom of it alL Now, how did you come to hear 
of him? Every detail, please. Everything about him is im- 
portant.' 

64 



Sabie Basilisk turned back to tie first letter on the file. 
'YeSj' He said thoughtfully, 'I thought this might be the 
same chap When I got a lot of uijgeht calls from the Foreign 
OflEice and the Ministry of Defence yesterday. Hadn't 
occurred to me before,; I'm aJ&aid, that this is a case where 
our seaets have to come second, or I'd have done something 
about it earlier. Now then, in June last, the tenth, we got 
this confidential letter from a firm , of respectable Ziirich 
solicitors, dated the dry before. I|I1 r^d it out: 

'Honoured Sirs, 

'We ha^e a valued client by the name of Ernst Stavro 
Blofeld. This gentleman styles himself Monsieilr le Comte 
Balthazar de Bleuville in tie belief that he is the rightful 
' heir to this : title which we' undetstand to be extinct, I32s 
belief is based on stories he heaird from his parents in 
childhood 'to the efifect tiiat his family fled France , at the 
time of the Revolution, settled in Germany under the 
adopted name of Blofeld, assumed in order to evade the 
Revolutionary authorities and safeguard their fortune 
'which ttey had sequestered in Augsburg, and sub- 
sequendy, in the 1850's, migrated to Poland. 
'Our client is now anxious to have these facts estab- 
: lished in order legally to obtain right to the de Bleuville 
I titie supported by an Acte de Notoridte which would in 
due course receive the stamp of approval of the Minist&re 
I, , de la Justice in Paris. 

'In the meantime, our dient proposcis to continue to 
adopt, albeit provisiohially, the title of Comtc; de Bleuville 
together with the family arms which he informs us are 
, "Argent four fusils in fesse gules" and the de Bleuville 
I motto which, in Enghsh, is ''For Hearth- and Home''.* 

I ' That's a good one I ' interjected Bond. Sable Basilisk smiled 
I and continued: 

_'We understand that you, honoured Sirs, are the only 
body in the world who is capable of undertaking this 



research work and wc have been instructed to get in touch 
with you under the strictest conditions of confidence, which, 
in view of the social aspects involved, we think we have 
the right to request 

'The financial standing of our client is impeccable and 
expense is no object in this matter. As a preliminary 
honotatium and upon acceptance of this commission, we 
propose a payment of one thousand pounds sterling to your 
accoxmt in such bank as you may designate. 

'Awaiting the favour of an early reply, we remain, 
honoured sirs etc. etc., Gebriider Gumpold-Moosbrugger, 
Advokaten,'16 bis, Bahnhofstrasse, Zurich.' 

Sable Basilisk looked up. James Bond's eyes were gHttering 
with excitement. Sable BasiKsk smiled. 'We were even more 
interested than you seem to be. You see, to let you in on a 
secret, our salaries are extremely modest So we all have 
private means which we supplement from fees received for 
special work like this. These fees rarely go above fifty guineas 
for a piece of pretty tough research and all the leg work at 
Soiherset House and in parish records and graveyards that 
is usuaUy involved in tracking a man's ancestry. So this looked 
like a real challenge for the College, and as I was "in waiting" 
the day the letter came in, sort of "of&cer of the watch", 
the job fell into my lap.' 

Bond said urgently, 'So what happened? Have you kept 
the contact?' 

'Oh yes, but rather tenuously, I'm afraid. Of course I 
wrote at once accepting the commission and agreeing to the 
vow of secrecy which' - he smiled - 'you now force me to 
break presumably by invokmg the Official Secrets Act. That 
is so, isn't it? I am acting under force majeure?' 

'You are indeed,' said Bond emphatically. 

Sable Basilisk made a carefiil note on the top paper in the 
file and continued. 'Of course the'first thing I had to ask 
for was the man's birth certificate and, after a delay, I was 
told that it had been lost and that I was on no account to 
worry about it. The Count had in feet been bom in Gdynia 

66 



of a Polish father and a Greek mother - I have the names 
here - on May 28thj 1908. Could I not pursue my researches 
backwards from the de Bienville end? I replied temporiziag, 
but by this time I had indeed established from our library 
that there had been a family of de BleuvilleSj at least as lately 
as the seventeenth century, at a place called Blonville-sur- 
Mer, Calvados, and that their arms and motto were as 
claimed by Blofeld.' Sable Basilisk paused. 'This of course 
he must have known for himself. There would have been no 
purpose in inventing a family of de Bleuvilles and trying to 
stuff them down our throats. I told the lawyers of my dis- 
covery andj in my summer holidays - the North of France is 
more or less my private heraldic beat, so to speak, and very 
rich it is too in connexions with England - 1 motored down 
there and sniffed around. But meanwhile I had, as a matter 
of routine, written to our Ambassador in "Warsaw and asked 
him to contact our Consiil in Gdynia and request him to 
employ a lawyer to make the simple researches with the 
Registrar and the various churches where Blofeld might 
. have been baptized. The reply, early in September, was, but 
is no longer, surprising. The pages containing the record of 
Blofeld's birth had been ncady cut out. I kept this informa- 
tion to myself, that is to say I did not pass it on to the Swiss 
lawyers because I had been expressly instructed to make no 
inquiries in Poland. Meanwhile I had carried out similar 
inquiries through a lawyer in Augsburgl There, there was 
indeed a record of Blofelds, but of a profusion of them, 
for it is a fairly common German name, and in any case 
noliiing to link any of them with the de Bleuvilles from 
Calvados. So I was stumped^ but no more than I have been 
before, and I wrote a neutral report to the Swiss lawyers and 
said that I was continuing my researches. And there' - Sable - 
Basilisk slapped the file shut - 'until my tdephone began 
ringing yesterday, presumably because someone in the 
Northern Department of the Foreign Office was checking 
the file copies from Warsaw and the name Blofeld rang a bell, 
and you appeared looking very impatient from the cave of 
my friend the Griffon, the case rests.' 

67 



Bond saatched his head thoughtfully. 'But the ball's still 
in play?' 

'Oh yes, definitely.' ' 

'Can you keep it in play? I take it you haven't got Blofdd's 
preseht address?' Sable BasiUsk shook his head. 'Then 
would there be any conceivable excuse for an envoy fi:om 
you?' Bond smiled. 'Me, for example, to be sent out ftom the 
College to have an interview with Blofeld - some tricky joint 
that cannot be' cleared up by correspondence, sornething that 
needs a personal inquiry from Blofeld?' 

'Well, yes, there is in a way.' Sable Basilisk looked rather 
dubious; ' You see, in some £imilies there is> sixong physical 
characteristic that goes on inevitably from generation to 
generation. The Habsburg lip is a case in poLat. So is the 
tendency to haemophiUa among descendants of the Bourbons. 
The hawk nose of the Medici is another. A certain royal 
femily have minute, vestigial tails. The original maharajahs 
of Mysore were bom with six fingers on each hand. I could 
go on indefinitely, but those are the most famous cases. 
Now, when I was scratching around in the crypt of the chaped. 
at Blonville, having a look at the old Bienville tombs, my 
flashlight, moving over thfe stone faces, picked out a curious 
fact that I tucked away in my mind but that your question has 
brougbit to the surface. None of the de Bleuvilles, as fer as I 
could tell, and certainly not through a hundred and fifty 
years, had lobes to their ears.' 

'Ah,* said Bond, running over in his mind the Identicast 
picture of Blofeld and the complete, printed physiognometry 
of the man in Records. ' So he shouldn't by rights have lobes 
to his ears. Or ; at any rate .it would be a strong piece of 
evidence for his case if he hadn't?' 

'That's right.' 

'Well, he has got lobes,' said Bond, annoyed. 'Rather . 
pronounced lobes as a matter of fact Where does that get us? ' 

'To begin wiliha added to what I know anjrway, that makes 
him probably not a de Bleuville. But after all' - Sable Basilisk 
looked sly .- 'there's no reason why he should know what 
physical characteristic we're looking for in this intoview.' 

•. 68 . 



'You think we could set one up? 

'Don't see why not But' - Sable Basilisk was apologetic - 
' would you mind if I got clearance from Garter King of 
Arms? He's toy bo^s, so to speakjUnder the Duke of Norfolk 
that isj the Earl Marshd, and I can't remember that we've 
ever been mixed up in this sort of cloak-and-dagger stuff 
before. Actually' - Sable Basilisk waved a deprecating hand - 
'we are, we have to be, damned meticulous. You do see that^ 
don't you?' - ■:■ 

'Naturally. And I'm sure there'd be no objection. But, 
even if Blofeld agreed to see me,:how in hell could I play 
the part? This stuff is all double Dutch to me.' He smiled. 
'I don't know the diffpceoce betwieen a gtie and a bezant 
arid Fve neVer been able to make out what a baronet is. 
What's my story to Blofeld? Who am I exactly?' 

Sable Basilisk was getting enthusiastic. He said cheerfully, 
'Oh that'll be all right. I'll coach you in all tiie dope about 
the de Bleuvilles. You can easily mug up a few popular 
books On heraldry. It^s not difficult to be impressive on the 
subject. Very few people know anything about it' 

'Maybe. But this Blofeld is a pretty smart animal. He'll 
want the hell of a lot of credentials before he sees anyone 
but his lawyer and his banker. WJ^o exactly am I?' 

'You think Blbfeld's smarit because you've seen the smart 
side of him,' said Sable Basilisk sapiently. 'I've seen hundreds 
of smart people from the City, industry, politics - famous 
people I've been quite frightened to meet when they walked 
iato this room. But when it comes to snobbery, to buying 
respectability so to speak, whether it's the title tibey're going 
to choose or just a coat of arms to hang over their fire-places 
in Surbiton, they dwindle and dwindle in front of you' - he 
made a downward niotion over his desk With his hand - 'until 
they're no bigger than homunculi. And the women are even 
worse. The idea of suddenly becoming a "lady" in their 
small conmumity is so intoxicating that the way they bare 
their souls is positiyely obscene. It's as if ' — Sable Basilisk 
ftirfowed his high, pale brow, seeking for a simile - 'these 
fimdamentaHy good dtizens, these Smiths and Browns and 



Joneses and' - he smiled across the desk - 'Bonds, regarded 
the process of ennoblement as a sort of laying-on of hands, 
a way of ridding themselves of all the drabness of their livesj 
of all their, so to speak, essential meagreness, their basic 
inferiority. Don't .worry about Blofeld. He has already 
swallowed the bait. He may be a tremendous gangster, and 
he must be &om what I remember of the case. He may be 
tough and ruthless in his corner of human behavionr. But if 
he is trying to prove that he is the Comte de Bleuville, you 
can be sure of various things. He wants to change his name. 
That is obvious. He wants to become a new, a respectable 
personality. That is obvious too. But above all he wants to 
become a Count.* Sable Basilisk brought his hand flat down 
on his desk for emphasis. 'That, Mr Bond, is tremendously 
significant. He is a rich and successful man in his line of 
business - no matter what it is. He no longer admires the 
material things, riches and power. He is now 54, as I reckon 
it. He wants a new skin. I can assure you, Mr Bond, that he 
will receive you, if we play our cards right that is, as if he 
were consulting his doctor about' - Sable Basilisk's aristo- 
cratic face took on an expression of distaste - 'as if he were 
consulting his doctor after contracting V.lD.' Sable Basilisk's 
eyes were now compelling. He sat back in his chair and lit his 
first cigarette. The smell of Turkish tobacco drifted across to 
Bond. 'That's it,' he said with certitude. 'This man knows 
he is undean, a social pariah. Which of course he is. Now 
he has thought up this way of buying himself a new identity. 
If you ask me, we must help the hair to grow and flourish 
on his heel of Adiilles until it is so luxuriant that he trips 
on it.' 



70. 



8 



( Fancy Cover 

'And who the hdl are j>om supposed to be?' 

M more or less repieated Bond's question when, that even- 
ing, he looked up 'from the last page of the report that Boiid 
had spent the afternoon dictating to Mary Goodnight. M's 
face was just outside the pool of yellow light cast by the 
, greea-shaded reading lamp on his desk, but Bond knew 
that the lined, sailor's face was reflecting, in varying degrees, 
scepticism, irritation, and impatience. The 'hell' told him so. 
M rarely swore and when he did it was nearly always at 
stupidity. M obviously regarded Bond's plan as stupid, and 
now, away from the dedicated, minutely focused world of the 
Heralds, Bond wasii't sTire that M wasn't right. 

"I'm to be an eniiissary from the College of Arms, sir. This 
Basilisk chap recommended that I should have some kind 
of a titl^ the sort ofrather highfalutin one that would impress 
a man with this kind of bee in his bonnet. And Blofdd's 
obviously got this bee or he wouldn't have revealed his 
existence, even to such a presumably secure and - er - sort 
of remote comer of the world as the College of Arms. I've 
put down there the arguments of, this, chap and they make a 
lot of sense to me; Snobbery's . a real Achilles hed with 
people. Blofeld's obviously gbt thie bi^ badly, I think we can 
get to him through it.' 

'Well, I think ifs all a pack of nonseflse,' said M testily. 
(Not many years before, M had been awarded the ,KCMG 
for his services, and Miss Moneypenny, his' desirable secre- 
tary, had revealed in a raoment of candoiur to Bond that M. 
had not replied to a single one of the notes and letters of con- 
gratulation. After a while he -had refrised even to read thent 
and had told, Aiiss Moneypenny not.to show him any more 
but to throw them In the wastepaper.basket) 'All right then, 
what's this ridiculous 'tide to be? And wlat happens next?' 

\ 71 ■' ' ■ ■ 



If Bond had been able to blush, he would have blushed. 
He saidj 'Er - -wellj sir, it seems there's a chap called Sir 
Hilary Bray. Friend' of Sable Basilisk's. About my age and 
not unlike me to look at. His family came from some place 
in Normandy. Family tree as long as your arm. William the 
Conqueror and all that. And a coat of arms that looks like a 
mixture between a jigsaw puzzle and Piccadilly Circus at 
night. Well, Sable Basilisk says he can fix it with him. This 
man's got a good war record and sounds a reliable sort of 
chap. He lives in some remote glen in the Highlands^ watch- 
ing birds and climbing the hills with bare feet. Never sees a 
soul. No reason why anyone in Switzerland should have 
heard of him.* Bond's voice became defensive, stubborn. 
'Well, sir, the idea is that I should be him. Ratiier fancy 
cover, but I think it makes sense.' 

'Sir Hilary Bray, eh?' M tried to conceal his scom. 'And 
then what do you do? Run around the Alps waving this 
femous banner of his?' 

Bond said patiently, obstinately, refusing to be brow- 
beaten, 'First I'll get Passport Control to fix up a good 
passport. Then I mug up Bray's family tree until I'm word- 
perfect on the thing. Then I swot away at the rudiments of 
this heraldry business. Then, if Blofeld takes the bait, I go 
out to Switzerland with all the right books and suggest that I 
work out his de Bleuville pedigree with him.* 

'Then what?' 

'Then I try and winkle him out of Switzerland, get him 
over the frontier to somewhere where we can do a kidnap 
job on him, rather like the IsraeHs did with Eichmann. But I 
haven't worked out all the details yet, sir. Had to get your 
approval and then Sable Basilisk has got to make up a damned 
attractive fly and throw it over these Ziirich solicitors.' 

'Why not try putting pressure on the Zurich solicitors and 
winkle Blofeld's address out of them? Then we might think 
of doing some kind of a commando job.' 

'You know the Swiss, sir. God knows what kind of a 
retainer these lawyers have from Blofeld. But it's bound to 
be millionaire size. We might eventually get the address, 

72 



but they'd be bound to tip off Blofeld if only to lay their 
hands on their fees before he vamoosed. Monejps the religion 
of Switzerland.' 

'I don't need a lecture on the qualities of the Swiss, thank 
yoUj 007. At least they keep their trains clean and cope with 
the beatnik problem [two very rampant bees in M's bonnet!], 
but I daresay there's some truth in what you- say. Oh, well.' 
M wearily pushed the file over to Bond. 'Take it away. 
It's a messy-looWng bird's-nest of a plan. But I suppose it 
had better go ahead.' M shook his head sceptically. 'Sir 
Hilary Bray! Oh, well, tell the Chief of Staff I approve. But 
reluctantly. Tell him you can have the facilities. Keep me 
informed.' M reached for the Cabinet telephone. His voice 
was deeply disgruntled. 'Suppose 111 have to tell the PM 
we've got a line pn the chap. The kind of tangle it is, I'll keep 
to myself That's all, 007.' 

'Thank you, sk. Goodnight.' As Bond went across to the 
door he heard M say into the green receiver, 'M speaking. 
I want the Prime Minister personally, please.' He might have 
been asking for the mortuary. Bond went out and softly 
dosed the door behind him. 

* * * 

So, as November blustered its way into December, James 
Bond went unwillingly back to school, swotting up heraldry 
at his desk instead of top-secret reports, pickiag up scraps 
of medieval Fieach. and English, steeping himself in fusty' 
lore and myth, picking the brains of Sable Basilisk and 
occasionally learning iateresting facts, such as that the 
founders of Gamages came from the de Gamaches in 
Normandy and that Walt Disney was remotely descended 
frora the d'lsign]^ of the same part of France. But these were 
nuggets in a wasteland of archaisms, and when, one day, 
Mary Goodnight, in reply to some sally of his, addressed 
him as 'Sir Hilary* he nearly bit her head off. 

Meanwhile the highly delicate correspondence between 
Sable Basilisk and the Gebriider Moosbrugger proceeded 
haltingly and at a snail's pace. They, or rather Blofeld behind 

73 



them, posed countless itritating but. Sable Basilisk admittedj 
erudite queries each one of which had to be countered with 
this oi; that degree of heraldic obfiiscation. Then there were 
minute questions about this emissary. Sir Hilary Bray. 
Photographs were asked for, and, suitably doctored, were 
provided. His whole career since his schooldays had to be , 
detailed and was sent down froiii Scotland with a: highly 
amused covering hote firoin the real man. To test the market, 
more funds were asked for by Sable Basilisk and, with en- , 
couraging promptitude, were forthcoming in the shape of a 
further thousand pounds. When the cheque arrived on 
December 15th Sable Basilisk telephoned Bbind delightedly. 
'We've gpt him,' he said. 'He's hooked!' And, sure enough, 
the next day came a letter from Zurich to say that their client 
agreed to a meeting with Sir Hilary. Would Sir Hilary please 
arrive at Zurich Central Airport by Swissdr flight Number 
105, due at ZGrich at 1300 hours on December 2ist. On 
Bond's prompting. Sable Basilisk wrote back that the date 
was not convenient to, Sir Hilary owing to a prior engagement 
with the Canadian High Commissioner regarding a detail in 
the Arms of the Hudson's Bay Company. Sir Hilary could, 
however, manage the 22nd. By return came a cable agreeing 
and, to Bond, confirming that the fish had not only swallowed 
the hook but the line and sinker as well 

jyhe last few days were spent in a flurry of meetings, 
wim the Chief of Staff presiding, at Headquarters. The main 
" decisions were that Bond should go to the meeting with 
Blofeld absolutely 'clean''. He would carry no weapons, no 
secret gear of any kind, and he would not be watched or 
followed by the Service in any way. He would conununicate 
only with Sable Basilisk, getting across such information as 
he could by using heraldic double talk (Sable BasiUsk had 
been cleared by MI5 immediately after Bond's first meeting , 
with him), and Sable, Basilisk, who vaguely thought that 
Bond was employed by the Ministry of Defence, would be 
given a cut-out at the Ministry who would be his go-between 
with the Service. This was aU assuming that Bond managed 
to stay dose to Blofeld for at ' least a matter of days. And 
■ ' ■ 74 ■ ■ . . , 



that was to be his basic stratagem. It was essential to find 
out as much as possible about Blofeld, his activities and Ms 
associateSj in order to proceed with plaaning the next step, 
ids abduction from Switzerland. Physical action might not be 
necessary. Bond might be able to trick the man into a visit 
to Germany, as a result of a report which Sable Basilisk had 
prepared of certain Blofeld family docmnents at the Augs- 
burg Zentral Archiv, which would need Blofeld's personal 
identification. Security precautions would include keeping 
Station Z completely in the dark about Bond's mission to 
Switzerland and a closure of the 'Bedlam' file at Head- 
quarters which would be announced in the routine 'Orders 
of the Day'. Instead, a new code-word for the operation, 
known only to an essential handful of senior officers, would 
be issued-. It would be 'corona'. 

Fiaally, the personal dangers to Bond himself were dis- 
cussed. There was total respect for Blofeld at Headquarters. 
Nobody questioned his abilities or his ruthlessness. If Bond's 
true identity somehow became known to Blofeld, Bond would 
of course instantly be Uquidated. A more dangerous and 
likely event would be that, once Blofeld had probed Bond's 
heraldic gen to its rather shallow bottom and it had been 
proved that he was or was not the Comte de Bleuville, Sir 
Hilary Bray, his usefulness expended, might 'meet with an 
accident'. Bond would just have to face up to these hazards 
and watch out particularly for the latter. He, and Sable 
Basilisk behind him, would have to keiep some tricks up their 
sleeves, tricks that would somehow make Sir Hilary Bray's 
continued existence important to Blofeld. In conclusion, the 
Chief of Staff said he considered the whole operation 'a lot 
of bezants' and that 'Bezants' would have been a better 
code-word than 'Corona'. However, he wished Bond the 
best of luck and said, cold-heartedly, that he would instruct 
the Technical Section to proceed fortiwith with the devising of 
a consignment of explosive snowballs for Bond's protection. 

It was on this cheery note that Bond, on the evening of 
December 21st, returned to his office for a last run-through 
of his documentation witib Mary Goodnigiht. 

75 



He sat sideways to his desk, looking out over the triste 
vHnter twilight of Regent's Park under snow, while she sat 
opposite him and ran through the items: 'Burke's Extinct 
and Dormant Baronetage, property of the College of Heralds. 
Stamped "Not to be removed from the Library". The 
printed Vintaticm in the, College of Arm, stamped ditto. 
Genealogists Guide, by G. W. Marshallj with Hatchard's 
receipted biU to Sable Basilisk inserted. Burke's General 
Armory, stamped "Property of the London Library", 
wrapped and franked Derember lOth. Passport in the name 
of Sir Hilary Bray, containing varipias recently-dated frontier 
stamps in and out of ^^rance, Germany, and the LoW 
Countries, fairly well used and dog-eared. One large file pf 
correspondence with Augsburg and Zurich on College of 
Anns writing-paper and the writing-paper of the addressees. 
And that's the lot. Yoti've fixed your laundry tags and so on?' 

'Yes,' said Bond dully. 'I've fixed all that. And I've got 
two new suits with cuffs and douUe vents at the back and 
four buttons down the front. Also a gold watch and chain 
with the Bray seal. Qmte,tte litde baronet' Bond turned 
and looked across the desk at Mary Goodnight. 'What do you 
think of this caper. Alary? Think it'll come off?' 

'Well, it should do,' she said staunchly, 'With all the 
trouble that's been taken. But' - she hesitated - 'I dpn't 
like you taking this man on without a gun.' She waved a 
hand at the pile on the floor. 'And all these stupid bpoks 
about heraldry! It's just not you. You will take care, won't 
you?' 

'Qh, rU do that all right,' said Bond reassuringly. 'Now, 
be a good girl and get a radio taxi to the Universal Expprt 
entrance. Aad put aU that junk inside it, would you? I'll be 
down in a minute. I'll be at the flat aU this evening' - he 
snuled sourly - 'packing my silk shirts with the crests cn 
them.' He gpt up. 'So long, Maiy. Or rather goodnight. 
Goodnight. And keep out of trouble till I get back.' • 

She said, 'You do that yourself 'She bent and picked up 
the books and papers, from^ the floor and, keeping her face 
hidden from Bond, went to the door and kicked it shut 

■76 



behind her with her heel. A moment or two hter she opened 
the door again. Her eyes were tjright. 'I'm sqrry, James. 
Good luck! And Happy Christnias!' She closed the door 
softly behind her. - 

Bond looked at the blank&ce of the Office of Works cream 
door. What a dear girl Mary ^was! But inow there was Tracy. 
He would be hear her in Switzerland. It was time to make 
contact again. He had been missing her> wondering about 
her. There had been three □on-committal but cheerful post- . 
cards from the Oinique de I'Aube at Davos. Bond had made 
inquiries and had ascertained that this was run by a Pro- 
fessor Auguste Kommerj President of the Society Psychia- 
trique et Psydiologique Suisse. Over the telephone. Sir 
James Molonyi, the nerve specialist by appointment to the 
Service, had told Bond thiat Kommer was one of the top men 
in the world at his job. Bond had written affectionately and 
encouragingly to Tracy and had had the letter^ posted from 
America. He had said he would be home soon ^d would 
be in touch with her. Would he? And whatwould he do tEen? 
: Bond had a luxurious moment feejling sorry for himself, for 
the miscellaneous burdens he was carrying alone. He then 
crushed out his cigarette and, banging doors behind him, 
got the hell out of his office and down in the lift to the discreet 
side-entr^ce that ssiid 'Univeirsal Export'. 

The taxi was waiting. It was seven o'clock. As the taxi 
got under way, Boiid made: his plan for the evening. He 
would furst do an extremely careful packmg job of his single 
suitcase, the one that had no tricks to it, have two double 
vodkas and tonics with a dash of Angostura, eat a large dish 
of May's speciality - scrambled eggs fines herbes - have two 
more vodkas and tonics, and then, slightly drunk, go to bed 
\nth half a grain of Seconal. 

Encouraged by the prospect of this cosy self-anaesthesia. 
Bond brusquely kicked his problems under the carpet of his 
consdousnessi 



77 



9 



Irma La Not So Douce 

The next day, at London Airport, James Bond, bowler hat, 
rolled umbrella, neatly folded Times and all, felt faintly 
ridiculous. He fdt totally so when he was treated with the 
deference due to his title and shown into the VIP lounge 
before take-off. At the ticket desk, when he had been ad- 
dressed as Sir Hilary, he had looked behind him to see who 
the girl was talking to. He really must pull himself together 
tod damn well he Sir Hilary Bray! 

Bond had a double brandy and ginger ale and stood aloof 
from the handful of other privileged passengers' in the 
gracious loimge; trying to feel like a baronet. Then he re- 
membered the real Sir Hilary Bray, perhaps now grallochiag 
a hind with his bare hands somewhere up in the Glens. 
There was nothing of the baronet about him! He really must 
get rid of the inverted snobbery that, with its opposite, is 
ingrained in so many of the English! He must stop acting a 
part, being a stage nobleman! He would just be himself and, 
if he gave the appearance of being rather a rough-hewn 
baronet, the easy-going kind, well, that at least was like the 
real one up in Scotland. Bond threw down the Times that 
he had been carrying as an extra badge of Top Feopleship, 
picked up the Daily Express^ and asked for another brandy 
and guiger ale. 

Then, with its twin jets whispering far back of the first- 
dass cabin, the Swissair Caravdle was airborne and Bond's 
mind was reaching forward to the rendezvous that had been 
so briefly detailed by the Ziirich soHcitors. Sh Hilary would 
be met at the airport by one of the Comte de Bleuville's 
secretaries. He would be seeing the Count that day or the 
next. Bond had a moment of panic. How should he address 
the man when he met him? Count? Monsieur le Comte? 
No, he would call hirn nothing - perhaps an occasional 

78 



patronizing 'my dear sir* in context What would Blofdd 
look like? Would he have changed his appearance much? 
Probably, or the fox wouldn't have kept ahead of the hounds 
so eflSdently. Bond's excitement mounted as he consumed a 
delicious lunch served by a delicious stewardess, and the 
winter-brown chequerboard of France fled backwards 
distantly below. Now there was scattered snow and barren 
trees as they crossed the tiny hillocks of the VosgeSj then 
permanent snow and ice-floes on the Rhine, a short stop at 
Basle, and then the black criss-cross of Zurich Airport and 
'festen your lap-straps' in three languages, and they were 
planing down, a shght bump, the roar of jet deflection, and 
then they were taxying up to the apron in front of the im- 
posing, very European-looking buildings decked with the gay 
flags of the nations . 

At the Swissair desk inside the door, a woman' was standing 
beside the reception counter. As soon as Bond appeared in 
the entrance she came forward. 'Sair Hilary Bray?' 

'Yes.' 

'I am Fraulein Irma Bunt. Personal secretary to the Count. 
Good afternoon. I hope you had a happy flight/ 

She looked like a very sunburned female wardress. She 
had a square, brutal face with hard yellow eyes. Her smile 
was an oblong hole without humour or welcome, and there 
were sunburn blisters at the left comer of her mouth which 
she licked from time to time with the tip of a pale tongue. 
Wisps of brownish grey hair, with a tight, neat bun at the 
back, showed J&om under a skiing hat with a yellow talc 
visor that had straps which met under her chin. Her sttohig, 
short body was dressed in ■ unbecomingly tight vorlage 
trousers topped by a grey wind-jacket ornamented over the 
left breast with a large red G topped by a coronet. Irma la 
not so Douce, thought Bond. He said, 'Yes. It vvas very 
pleasant.* ' 

' You have your baggage check? Will you follow me, please? 
And first your passport. This way.' 

Bond followed her through the passport control and out 
into the customs hall. There were a few standers-by. Bond 

79 



noticed her head nod casually. A man with a brief-case • 
under his arm, hanging about, moved away. Bond studiously 
examined his baggage check. Beyond the scrap of card- 
board, he noticed the man slip into one of the row of tele- 
phone booths in tie main hall Outside the custon^ area. 

'You speak German?* The tongue flicked out and licked 
the blisters. 

'No, I'm afraid not.' 

'French perhaps?' 

'A little. Enough for my work.' , 

'Ah, yes. That is important, yes?* 

Bond's suitcase Was unloaded oS the trolley on to the 
barrier. The woman flashed some kind of a pass at the 
customs officer. It was very quickly done, but Bond caught 
a glimpse of her photograph and the heading 'Bundespolizei'. 
Sol Blofeld had got the fix in! 

The ofiBcer said deferentially, 'Bitte sehr,' and chalked 
his symbol in the colour of the day, yellow, on Bond's suit- 
case. A porter took it and they walked across to the entrance. 
When, they came Out oh the steps, an anonymous black 
Mercedes 300 SE saloon piiUed smardy out of the parking 
area and slid to a stop beside them. Next to the chauffeur 
sat the man who had gone to the telephone. Bond's suitcase 
was put in the boot and they moved off fast in the direction 
of Ziirich. A few hundred yards down the wide road, the man 
beside the driver, who. Bond noticed, had been surrep- 
titiously watdung iu the twin driving-mirror, said softly, 
'Is' gut,' and, the car turned right-handed up a side road 
which was marked 'Eingang Verboten! Mit Ausnahme von 
Eigentiimer und.PersoneE von Privatflugzeugen'. 

Bond was amused as he ticked off the litde precautions. 
It was obvious that he was still very much on probation. 

The car came up with the hangars to the left of the maiu 
building, drove slowly between them and pulled up beside a 
bright orange Alouette helicopter, adapted by Sud Aviation 
for mountain rescue work. But this one had the red G with 
the corortet on its fuselage. Sol He was going.to be taken, 
for a flight rather than a ride! 

80 • , ' " 



'You have travelled in one of these machines before, no? 
It is very pleasant. One obtains a fine view of the Alps.' 
Fraulein Bunt's eyes were blank with disinterest. They 
climbed up the aluminium ladder. 'Aiind your head, please!' 
Bond's suitcase was handed up by the chaufieur. 

It was a six-seatetj luxurious in red leather. Above and 
in firont of them under his Perspex canopy the pilot lifted 
a thumb. The ground staff pulled away tibc chocks and the 
big blades began to move. As they accelerated, the men on 
the ground drew away, shielding' their faces against the 
whirling snow. There was a slight jolt and then they were 
climbing fast, and the cntckle of radio from the control tower 
went silent. 

Irma Bunt was across the passage-way from Bond. The 

extra man was in the rear, hidden behind the Zuricher 
Zeitung. Bond leaned sideways and said loudly, against the 
ratdc of the machine, 'Where are we heading for?' 

She pretended not to hear. Bond repeated his question, 
shouting it. 

'Into the Alps. Into the high Alps,' shouted the woman. 
She waved , towards the window. 'It is very beautiful. You 
like the moimtains, isn't it?' 

'I love them,' shouted Bond. 'Just like Scotland.' He 
leaned back in his seat, lit a cigarette, and looked out of 
the window. Yes, there was the Zurichersec to port. Their 
course was more or less east-south-east. They were flying at 
about 2,000 feet. And now there was the Wallensee. Bond, " 
apparently uninterested, took the Daily Express out of his 
trief-case and turned to the sports pages. He read the paper 
from last page to first, meticulously, every now and then 
casting a bored glance out of the window. The big range to 
port would be the Rhatikon Alps. That would be the railway 
junction of Landquart below them. They held their course 
up the valley of the Pratigau. Would they keep on at Klosters 
or veer to starboard? Starboard it was. So! Up the Davos 
Valley! In a few minutes he would be fl.ying over Tracy I 
A casual glance. Yes, there was Davos under its thin canopy 
of evening mist and smoke, while, above her, he was stiU in - 
■ 81 



bright sunshine. At least she seemed to have had plenty of 
snow. Bond remembered the tremendous run down the 
Parsenn. Those had been the days! And now back oh the 
old course again aiid giaiit peals to right and left. This must 
be the Engadine. The 'Silvretta Group away to starboardj to 
port Piz Languard andy ahead, the Bemina range diving 
down, like a vast ski-jumpi into Italy. That forest of lights 
away to starboard imust be St Moritz! Now .where? Bond 
buried himself in his paper. A slight veer to port. More 
lights. Pontresina? And now the radio began to crackle and 
the ' Seatbelts' sign went up. Bond thought it time to express 
open interest. He gazed out. Below, the ground was mostly in 
darkness, but ahead the giant peaks wer^ still golden in the 
dying sun. They were making straight for one of them, for a 
small plateau near its summit. There was a group of buildings 
from which golden wires swooped down into the darkness of 
the valley. A cable car, spangled in the sun, was creeping 
down. Now it had been swallowed up in the murk. The 
helicopter was still chargmg liie side of the peak tiHat towered 
above them. Now it was only a hundred feet up above the 
slope, coming in to tbe plateau and the buildings. The pilot's 
arms moved on his joy stick. The niachine pitched a Kttle 
and slowed. The rotor arms swung languidly and then 
accelerated as the machine hovered and settled. There came 
a slight bump as the inflated rubber 'floats' met the snow, 
a dying whirr from the rotor and they were there. 

Where? Bond knew. They were m the Languard range, 
somewhere above Pontresina in the Engadine, and their 
altitude would be about 10,000 feet. He buttoned up his 
raincoat and prepared for the rasping dagger of tbe cold air 
on his lungs when the door was opened. 

Irma Bunt gave her box-like srbile. 'We have arrivedi' 
she said unnecessarily. 

The door, with.a datter of falling ice particle, wa:s 
! wrenched bpen. The last rays of the sun shone into the cabin. 
They caug^it Ae woman's yellow sun visor and shone 
through, turning her face Chmese. The eyes gave out a &lse 
blaze, like the glass eyes of a toy animal, under the light. 



'Mind your head,' She bemt low, her' tight^ squat behind 
inviting an einonrions Kckj and went down the ladder. ' 

Jardes Bond followed her, hplding his breath against/the, , 
searing impact of the Ar,ctic,"osygeQless i^. There were one : 
or two men standing around dressed like ski guides. They ; 
looked, at Bond with curiosity, but there was no greeting. 
Bond went on across the hard-ttoddai snow in the wake of 
the' woman, the extjra mam following with, his suitcase. He 
heard the engine stutter and roar, and a blizzard of snow 
partides stung the right side of his face.' Then the iron grass-' , 
hoipper rose into the air and rattled off into the dusk. 

It was perhaps fifty yards from where the heUcopter had ;„ 
landed to the group of buildings. Bond:dawdled, getting pre- , 
•liminary bearings. Ahead was a long, low buildihg, now ' 
ablaze with lights. To the right, and perhaps another .fifty; 
yards awayi were the outlines of the - typical modem cable 
railhead, a box-like structure, with a itldfck flat roof canted 
upwards from close t9 the grbund. As, Bond examined it, its 
lig&s weiit out' Presumably the last car had reached the 
valley and the line was closed for the night. To the right of ; , 
this was ai l^ge,: bogus-chalet type structure with a vast ' 
veranda, sijarsely lit, that would be for the mass tourist trade 

again a typical piece of high-Alpihe architecture. Down to 
the left, beneath the slope of the plateau, lights- shone from a 
i fpurth building that, except for its flat roof, was out of sight. 

Bond was how only a few yards from the building that was ; 
obviously lus dwtinatibh. An oblong of ■ yellbw opened in- : ; 
yitingly as the woman went in and held the door, for him. ; ; 
The Hght illuminated a big sign with the red G surmotmted , , 
by the coronet. It said gloria klub. 3605 metres. 
PRjVAT 1 giUR FUR MiTGLIEDER. Bclow in Smaller letters „ 
it sdd 'Alpenberghaus lind Restaurant Piz Glcma V and the 
drooping index finger of the traditional hand pointed to . the >:: 
right, towards the building near the cable-head. 

So! Piz Gloria! Bond walked into the inviting yeUbw 
oblong. The doori released by the w,omah, "dosed with a 
pneumatic hiss. : ■ ■ ■ ! ■ 

Inside! it was delidously wairm, almost hot. They were 



in a small reception roomj and a youngish man with a yery 
pale crew-cut and shrewd eyes got to his feet from behind a 
desk and made a slight bob in their direction. 'Sir Hilary is 
in Number Two.' 

'Weiss schon/ said the woman curtly and, only just more 
poUtely, to Bond, 'Follow me, please.' She went through a 
facing door and down a thicMy-piled, red-carpeted passage. 
The left-hand wall was only occasionally broken by windows 
interspersed with fine skiing and mountain photographs. 
On the right were at first the' doors of the club rooms, marked 
Bar, Restaurant, and Toiletten. Then came what were 
obviously the doors of bedrooms. Bond was shown into 
Number Two. It was an extremely comfortable, chintzy 
iroom in the American motel style with a bathroom leading 
off. The broad picture window was now curtained, but Bond 
knew that it must offer a tremendous view over the valley 
to the Snvretta group above St Moritz. Bond threw Ins brief- 
case on the double bed md gratefully disposed of his bowler 
hat and umbrella. The extra man appeared with his suitcase, 
placed it on the luggage stand without lookiag at Bond, and 
withdrew, closing the door behind him. The woman stayed 
where she was. 'This is to yoin: satisfaction?' The yellow 
eyes were indifferent to his enthusiastic reply. She had more 
to say., 'That is good. Now perhaps I should explain some 
things, convey to you some laws of the club, isn't it?' 

Bond lit a cigarette. 'That would certainly be helpful.' 
He put a politdy interested expression on his face, f Where 
are we, for instance?' 

'In the Alps. In the high Alps,' said the woman vaguely. 
'This Alp, Piz Gloria, is the property of the Count. To- 
gether witii the Gemeinde, the local authorities, he con- 
structed the Sealbahn. You have seen the cables, yes? This is 
the first year it is opened. It is very popular and brings in 
much money. There are some fine ski runs. The Gloria 
Abfahrt is already famous. There is also a bob-sleigh run 
that is niuch greater than the Cresta at St Moritz. You have 
heard of that? You ski perhaps? Or make the bob-sleigh?' 

The yellow eyes were watchful. Bond thought he would 
.84 



continue to answer no to all questions. Instinct told him to. 
He said apologetically. 'I'm afraid not. Never got around to 
it, you kaow. Too much bound up with my books, perhaps/ 
He smiled, ruefully, self-critically. 

'Schade! That is a pity.' But the eyes registered satis- 
faction. 'These installations bring good income for the 
Count. That is important It helps to support his life's work, 
the Institut' 

Bond raised his eyebrows a polite fraction. 

'The Institut fur physiologische Forschung. It is for 
scientific research. The Count is a leader, in the field of 
allergies - you xmderstand? This is like liie hay fever, the 
unableness to eat shellfish, yes?' 

'Oh really? Can't say I suffer from any myself.' 

'No? The laboratories are in a separate building. There 
the Count also lives. In this building, where we are, live 
tiie patients. He asks that you will not disturb them with 
too many questions. These treatments are very delicate. You 
understand?' 

'Yes, of course. And when may I see the Count? I'm 
afraid I am a very busy man, Frauleui Bunt. There are 
matters awaiting my attention in London.' Bond spoke im- 
pressively. 'The new African States. Much work has to be 
done on their flags, the design of their currency, their 
stamps, their medals. We are very short-handed at the 
College. I hope the. Count understands that his personal 
problem, interesting and impoitant though it is, must take' 
second place to the problems of Government' ' 

Bond had got through. Now she was all eagerness, re- 
assurance. 'But of course, my dear Sair Hilary. The Count 
asks to be excused tonight, but he would much like to receive 
you at eleven o'clock tomorrow morning. That is suitable?' 

'Certainly, certainly. That will give me time to marshal 
my documents, my books. Perhaps' - Bond waved to the 
small writing desk near the window - 'I could have an extra 
table to lay these things out. I'm afraid' - Bond smiled 
deprecatingly - ' we bookworms need a lot of space.* 

'Of course, Sair Hilary. It wiU be done .at once.' She 
-85 ■ ■ , ' ■ 



moved to the door and pressed a bell-button; She gestured 
downwards, now definitely embarrassed. 'You will have 
noticed that there is : no door handle on this side?' (Bond 
iiad done so'< iHe said he hadn't.) ' You wUl ring when you 
wish to leave the room. Yes? It is on account of the patients. 
It is necessary that they have quiet. It is difficult to prevent 
them visiting each other for the saike, of gossiping. . It is for 
their good. You undCTStand?' Bed'^time is at ten o'clock. But 
there is a niglit staff in case you should need any service. 
And the doors are of course not locked. You may re-enter 
your room at any time. Yes? ^e meet for cocktails in the bar 
at sis. It is - how do you say? - the rest-pause of the day,' 
The bpx-like smile made its brief appearance. 'My ^Is 
are mtidi lctoking forward to meieting you,' 

The door opened. It was one of the men dressed as guides, 
a swarthy, bull-necked man with brown Mediterranean eyes. 
One of Marc-Ange's Gorsican defectors?!. In rapidj bad 
French, the wonlm saM^ table was .desired. This 

was to Ije fuirhisheid during dinner. The irian said 'Entehdu,' 
She held the door before he could dose it and he went off 
dbwn the passage to the right. Guards' quaiters at the end of 
the passage? Bond's mind wdidt on clidbdhg up the' dues. 

'Then that is all for the present, Saif Hilaty? The post- 
leaves at Jliidday. We have radio tdephone communications 
if you wish to use them. May I convey any message to the 
• Count?' ' 

'Please say that I look foywsird: greatly to meeting Idm 
tomorrow. Until six o'clock then.' Boild suddenly wanted: to; 
be alone with his thoughts. He gestured towards his suit- 
case. 'I;must get myself unpacked.' 

'Of course, of coursej Sair lElary. Eorgiye me for detaining 
ybU.' And, on this gradotis notej, Irma Bunt dosed the door, 
with its decisive clickj behind her. ' 

Bond stood still in the middle of the room. He let out his 
breath with ;a quiet hiss. What the heU of , a kettle of fish 1 
He would have liked to kick'one of jhe ddnty bits' of furniture 
very hard indeed, ButheMdho&ed that, of the four, dectric 
light prisms in the ceilingj one was a ttanki, protruding eye- 
■ ■ • ^ ^- ■ '"86" • ' . ' ■ ' . '/ ■ 



ball. Closed-cdroiit teievisioh? If . so, what would be its 
range? Not much more than a wide circle covering the centre 
of the room. Microphones? Probably the whole expanse of 
ceiling was one. That was the war-thnte gimmick. He njust,; 
he simply must assume that hfe was tmdex constant sup(^,.; 
''vision.- .''r'^'i... 

James Bond, his thoughts racing,, proceeded to unpack, 
take a shower, and make himself presentablei for 'my girls'. 



87 



10 



, Ten Gorgeous Girls 

It was one of those leather-padded bars, bogus-masculinej 
and stilly because -of its nevmess, smelling like the inside of a 
new motor-car. It was made to look like a Tyrolean Stube 
by a big stone fire-place with a roaring log fire and cartwheel 
chandeliers with red-stemmed electric 'candles'. There were 
many wrought-iron gimmicks - wall-Hght brackets, ashtrays, 
table lamps - and the bar itself was 'gay' with small flags 
and miniature Uqueur bottles. Attractive zither music tripped 
out from a hidden loud-speaker. It was not. Bond decided, a 
place to get seriously drunk in. 

When he closed the leather-padded, brass-studded door 
behind him, there was a moment's hush, then a mounting 
of dedbels to hide the covert glances, the swift summing-up. 
Bond got a fleeting impression of one of the most beautiful 
groups of girls he had ever seen, when Irma Bunt, hideous 
in some kind of home-made, homespun 'apr^-ski', in which 
orange and black predominated, waddled out &om among the 
galaxy and took him in charge. *Sair Hilary.' She grasped his 
hand with a dry, monkey grip.. 'How delightful, isn't it? 
Come please, and meet my girls.' 

It was tremendously hot in the room and Bond felt the 
sweat bead on his forehead as he was led from table to table 
and shook this cool, this warm, this languid hand. Names 
like Ruby, Violet, Pearl, Anne, Elizabeth, Beryl, sounded in 
his ears, but all he saw was a sea of beautiful, sunburned 
faces and a succession of splendid, sweatered young bosoms. 
It was like bemg at home to the Tiller or the Bluebell Girls. 
At last he got to the seat tiiat had been kept for him, between 
Irma Bunt and a gorgeous, bosomy blonde with large blue 
eyes. He sat down, overcome. The barman hovered. Bond 
pulled himself together, 'Whisky and soda, please,' he said, 
and heard his voice firom far away. He took some time Hghting 

88 V 



a cigarette while shanij stage conversation btoke out among 
the four, tables in the semicircular embrasure that must, 
during the day, be the great lookout point. Ten girls and 
trrna. All English. No siomames. No other man. Girls in ■ 
their twenties. Working girls probably. Sort of air-hostess 
.type; Excited at having a man among them - a personable man 
and a baronet to boot - if that was what one did to a baronet. 
Pleased with his private jok^ Bond turned to the blonde. 
'I'm terribly sorry, but I didn't catch your Jiame.* 

'I'm Ruby.' The voice was ftifendly but refined. 'It must 
be quite an ordeal being the only chap - among aU us girls, 
I mean.' • 

, 'Well, it was rather a surprise. But a very pleasant one. 
It's going to be difficult getting all your names right.' Etc 
lowered his voice conspiratorially. 'Be an angd arid run 
through the field, so to speak.' 

\ Bond's drink came and he was glad to find it strong. He 
took a long but discreet pull at it. He had noticed that the 
gurls were; drinking Colas and squashes with a sprinikling of 
feminine cocktails - Orange Blossoms, Daiquiris. Ruby was 
one of the ones with a Daiquiri. It \yas apparently OK to . 
drink, but he would be carefiil to show a gientlemaidy 
moderation. .' . 

Riiby seemed pleased to be able to break the ice. 'Well, 

: I'll start on youi: right. That's Miss Bunt, the sort of matron, 
so to: speak. You've met her. Then, in the violet tamelot 
sweater, well, that's Violet of course. Then at the next table. 
The one in lie green and gold Pucci shirt is Anne and next 
to her in green is Pearl. She's my sort of best friend here.' 
And so it went on, from one glorious golden girl to the next.' 
Bond heard scraps of their conversation. 'Fritz.sa;^ I'm not 
getting enough Vorlage. My skis keep on tunning away from 
me.' 'It's the same with me' - a giggle - 'my sit-upon's 
black and blue.' 'The Goimt says I'm gettifig on very well. 
Won't it be awful when we have to go?' 'I wonder how 
Polly's doing? She's been out a month now,' 'I think Skol's 
the pnly stuff for sunburn. AU those oils and creams are! 
nothing but frying-fat' Add so on - mostly lie chitter you 

89 • : 



would expect ficom a group of cheerful, healtiiy girls learning 
to sldj extept for the occasional rather awed reference to the 
Count and the covert glances at Irma Bunt and Bond to 
make sure that they were behaving properly, not making too 
much noise. 

While Ruby continued her discreet rolf-call. Bond tried to 
fix the names to the faces and otherwise add to his com- 
prehension of this lovely but bizarre group locked up on top 
of a very high Alp indeed. The girls all seemed to share a 
certain basic, girl-guidish simplicity of manners and lan- 
guage, the sort of girls who, in an English pub, you would 
find sitting demurely with a boy friend sipping a Babycham, 
puffing rather dumsily at a cigarette and occasionally saying 
*pardon'..Good girls, girls who, if you made a pass at them, 
would say, 'Please don't spoil it all', 'Men only want one 
thing' or, hufBly, 'Please take your hand away'. And there 
were traces of many accents, accents from all over Britain - 
the broad vowels of Lancashire, the lilt of Wales, the burr 
of Scotland, the adenoids of refined Cockney. 

Yours truly foxed, concluded Bond as Ruby finished with 
'And that's Beryl in the pearls and twin-set. Now do you 
think you've got us all straight?' 

Bond looked into the round blue eyes that now held a 
spark of animation. 'Frankly no. And I fed like one of those 
comic film stars who get snarled up in a girls' school. You 
know. Sort of St Trinian's.' 

She giggled. (Bond was to discover that she was a chronic 
giggler. She was too 'dainty' to open ho: iovdy lips and 
laugih. He was also to find that she couldn't sneeze like a 
human, but let out a muflBed, demure squeak into her' scrap 
of lace handkerchief, and that she took very small mouthfuls 
at meals and barely masticated with the tips of her teeth 
before swallowing with hardly a ripple of her throat. She 
had been 'well brought up'.) 'Oh, but we're not at all like 
St Trinian's. Those awful girls! How could you ever say 
such a thing!' 

'Just a thought,' said Bond airily. 'Now then, how about 
another drink?' 



90 



'Oh, thenks awfully.' 

Bond turned to Fraulein Bunt, 'And you. Miss Bunt?' 
'Thank you, Sair Hilary. An apples-juice, if you please.' 
Violet, the fourth at their table, said demurely that she 
wouldn't have another Coke. 'They give me wind,' she 

explained. 

'Oh Violet!' Ruby's sense of the proprieties was outraged. 
'How can you say such a thing!* 

"Well, anyway, they do,' said Violet obstinately. 'They 
make me hiccup. No harm in saying that, is there?' 

Good old Manchester, thought Bond. He got up and went 
to the bar, wondering how he was going to plough on 
through this and other evenings. He ordered the drinks and 
had a brain-wave. He would break the ice! By hook or by 
crook he would become the life and soul of lie party! He 
asked for a tumbler and that its rim should be dipped in 
water. Then he picked up a paper cocktail naplrin and went 
back to the table. He sat down. 'Now,' he said as eyes goggled 
at him, 'if we were paying for our drinks, I'll show you how 
we'd decide who should pay. I learned this in the Army.' 
He placed the tumbler in the middle of the table, opened the 
paper napkin and spread the centre tightly ovet the top so 
that it dung to the moist edge of the glass. He took his small 
change out of his pocket, selected a five-centime piece, and 
dropped it gently on to the centre of the stretched tissue. 
'Now then,' he announced, remembering that the last time 
he had played this game had been in the dirtiest bar in 
Singapore. 'Who else smokes? We need three others with 
Ughted cigarettes.' Violet was the only one at their table. 
Irma clapped her hands with authority. 'Elizabeth, Beryl, 
come over here. And come and watch, girls, Sair Hilary is 
making the joke game.' The girls clustered round, chattering 
happily at the diversion, 'What's he doing?' 'What's going to 
happen?' 'How do you play?' 

'Now then,' said Bond, feeling like the games director on 
a cruise ship, 'this i§ for who pays for the drinks. One by 
onei you take a puff at your cigarette, knock off the ash, like 
this, and' touch the top of the paper with the lighted end - just 

91 



enougjb to bum a tiny hole, like this.' The paper sparkled 
briefly. 'Now Violet, then Elizabeth, then Beryl. The point is, 
the paper gets like a sort of cobweb with the coin , just 
supported in tiie middle. The person who bums the last 
hole and makes the coin drop has to pay for the drinks. See? 
Now then, Violet.' 

There were squeaks of excitement. 'What a lovely game!' 
' Oh Beryl, look outl ' Lovely heads craned over Bond. Lovely 
hair brushed his cheek. Quiddy the three girls got the trfck 
of very delicately touching a space that would not collapse 
the' cobweb until Bond, who considered himself an expert 
at the game, decided to be chivalrous and purposely burned a 
vital strand. With the chink of the coin falling into the glass 
there was a burst of exdted laughter and applause. 

'So, you see, girls.' It was as if Irma Bunt had invented 
the ganae. 'Sair Hilary pays, isn't it? A most delightfiil 
pastime. And now' - she looked at her maimish wrist-watch - 
'we must finish our drinks. It is five minutes to supper time.' 

There were cries of 'Oh, one more game. Miss Bunt I' 
But Bond politely rose with his whisky in his hand. 'We will 
play again tomorrow. I. hope it's not going to start you all 
off smoking. I'm sure it was invented^ by the tobacco com- 
panies!' 

There was laughter. But the girls stood admiringly round 
Bond. What a sport he was! And' they had all expected a 
stuffed shirt! Bond felt justifiably proud of himself. The ice 
had been broken. He had got them all minutely on his side. 
Now they were all chums together. From now 6n he Would 
be able to get to talk to them without fiightening them. 
Feeling reasonably pleased with his gambit, he followed the 
tight pants of Irma Bunt into the dining-room next door. 

It was Seven-tliirly. Bond suddenly felt exhausted, ex- 
hausted with the prospect erf boredom, exhausted with play- 
: ing the most difficult role of his career, exhausted with the 
enigma of Blofeld and the Piz Gloria. What in hell was the 
bastard up to? He sat down on the right of Irma Bunt in the 
same pladng ias for drinks, with Ruby on his right and 
Violet, dark, demure, self-ef^dng, opposite him^ and glumly 



opened his napkin. Blofdd had certainly spent tiioney on his 
eyrie. Their three tables, in a reinote comer by the . long, 
curved, curtained window, occupied ' only a fiacticai of the 
space in the big, low, luxuriously appointed, mock-German 
baroque room, ornate with candelabra suspended from the 
stomachs of flying cherubs, festooned with heavy gilt plaster- 
work, solemnized by the dark portraits of anpnymous noble- 
men. Blofdd mtist be pretty certain he wajs here to stay. What 
was the investment? Certainly not less than a jiiillion sterling, 
even assuming a fat mortgage from Swiss, banks on the cost, 
of the cable railway. To lease an alp, put up a cable.railway 
on mortgage, with the engineers and the local district councQ 
partidpating - that. Bond knew, -Was one of the latest haveus 
for ftigitive funds. If you were successftd, if you and the 
council Could bribe or bully the local farmers to allow right- 
of-way through their.pastur.es, cut swaths through the tree- 
line for tiie cable pylons and the ski-nms, the test was 
publicity and amenities for the pubhc to eat their sand- 
wiches. Add to that the snob-appeal of a posh, heavily 
restricted diib such as Bond imagined this, during the. day- 
time, to be, the corbneted G, and the mystique of a researdi 
institute run by a Count, and you were off to the faces^ 
Skiing today. Bond had read, was the most widely practised 
sport in the world. It sounded imlikely, but then one reckoned , 
the others largely by spectators, SHers were partidpants, . 
and bigger spenders on equipment than in other sports. 
Cldtii^s, boots, skis, bindings, and now the wjhple 'apres-ski' 
routine which took care of the day from fouf o'clock, when 
the sun went, onwards, were a tremendous industry. If you 
could lay your hands on a good alp, which Blofdd had some- 
how managed to do, you really had it good. Mortgages paid . 
off" -7 snow was the joker, but in the Engadiae, at this hdght, 
you would be all right for that - in three or four years, and 
then jam for ever! One certainly had to hand it to himi 

It was time to make the going again! Resignedly, Bond 
turned to Fraulein Bunt. _'Fraulem Bunt. Please explain to 
m6. What is thei difference between a piz and an alp and a 
berg?' ■ ■ 

. •. ■■ ' 93 



The yellow eyes gleamed with academic enthusiasm. 'Ah, 
Sair Hilaryj but that is an interesting question. It had not 
occurred to me before. Now let me see.' She gazed into the 
middle distance. 'A piz, that is only a local name in this 
department of Switzerland for. a peak. An alp, that one 
would think would be smaller than a berg - a HU, perhaps, 
or an upland pasture, as compared with a mountain. But that 
is not so. These' - she waved her hand - 'are all alps and yet 
they are great mountains. It is the same in Austria, certainly 
in tiie Tyrol. But in Germanyj in Bavaria for instance, which 
is my home land, there it is all bergs. No Sair Hilary' - the 
box-like smile was switched on and off - 'I cannot help you, 
But why do you ask?' 

'In my profession,' said Bond prosily, 'the exact meaning 
of words is vital. Now, before we met for cocktails, it amused 
me to look up your surname. Bunt, in my books of reference. 
What I found, Fraulein, was most interesting. Bunt, it seems, 
is German for "gay", "happy". In England, the name has 
almost certainly been corrupted into Bounty, perhaps even 
into Bronte, because the grandfather of the famous literary 
family by that name had in fact changed his name from the 
less aristocratic name of Brunty. Now this is most interest- 
ing.' (Bond knew that it wasn't, that this was aU hocus-pocus, 
but he thought it would do no harm to stretch his heraldic 
muscles.) 'Can you remember if your ancestors had any 
connexion with England? There is the Dukedom of BrontS, 
you see, which Nelson assumed. It would be interesting to 
eslabhsh a connexion.' 

The penny dropped! A duchess! Irma Bunt, hooked, went 
off into a dreary chronicle of her forebears, including proudly, 
distant relationship with a Graf von Bunt. Bond listened 
politely, prodding her back to the immediate past. She gave 
the name of her father and mother. Bond ffled them away. 
He now had enough to find out in due course exactly who 
Irma Bunt was. What a splendid trap snobbery was ! How 
right Sable Basilisk had been! TJiere is a snob in all of us 
and only through snobbery could Bond have discovered who 
the parents of this woman were. 

94 



Bond finally calmed down the woman's momentary fever, 
and the head waiter, who had been politely hovering, pre- 
sented giant menus covered in violet ink. There was every- 
thing from caviar down to Double Mofcka au whisky irlandais. - 
There were ^so many 'sp6cialit6s Gloria' - Poulet Gloria, 
Homard Gloria, Toumedos Gloria, and so on. Bond, despite 
his forswearing of specialitds, decided to give the chicken a 
chance. He said so and was surprised by the enthusiasm with 
which Ruby greeted his dioice. 'Oh, how right you are. Sir 
Hilary ! I adore chicken too. I absolutely dote on it. Can I 
have that tooj pleascj Miss Bunt?' 

' There was such surprising fervour in her voice that Bond 
watdied Irma Bunt's face. What was that matronly gleam in 
itt eye as she gave her approval? ,It was liibre than approval 
for a good appetite among her charges. There was en- 
thusiasm, even triumph there. Odd! And it happened again 
when Violet stipulated plenty of potatoes with her toumedos. 
'I simply love potaitdes,;' she explained to Bond, her eyes 
shining. 'Don't you?' 

'They're fine,' agreed Bond. 'When you're taking plenty 
of exercise, that is.' . . . 

'Oh, they're just darling,' eathused Viblet 'Aish't 'they, 
Miss Bunt?' . 

'Vei^ good indeed; my dear. Vety good for you too. And 
Friti, I will just have the mixed salad with some cottage 
cheese.' She gave 'the caricature of a simper. 'Alas' -: she 
spoke to Bond - 'I have to watch my figure. These young 
things take plenty of exercise, while I most stay in my office 
and do the paper-wbrk, isn't it?' 

At title next table Bond heard the gurl with the Scottish 
burr, her voice full of saliva, ask that her Aberdeen Angus 
steak should b4 cooked very tare iiQdeed; *Guid and biuidy,' 
she emphasized. 

What was this? wondered Bond. A gathering of beautiful' 
ogresses? Or Was this a day qff from some rigorous diet? 
He felt completely clueless, out of his depth. Well, he wduld 
just go on digging. He turned to Ruby. 'You see what I 
meah about surnames. FrSulein Bunt DM.y even have distant 



claim to an English title. Now what's yours, for instance? I'll 
see what I can make of it.' 

Fraulein Bmit broke in sharply. 'No surnames here, Sair 
BQlary. It is a rule of the house. We use only first names for 
lie girls. It is part of the Count's treatment. It is bound up 
with a change, a transference of identity, to help the cure. 
You understand?' 

'No, I'm afraid, that's way out of my depth,' said Bond 
cheerfully. 

'No doubt the Count will explain some of these matters 
to you tomorrow. He has special theories. One day the world 
will be startled when he reveals his methods.' 

'I'm sure,' said Bond politdy. 'Well now' - he searched 
for a subject that would leave his mind firee to roam on its 
own. 'Tell me about your skiing. How are you getting on? 
Don't do it myself, I'm afraid. Perhaps I shall pick up some 
tips watching your classes.' 

It was an adequate ball which went boundng on between 
Ruby and Violet, and Bond kept it in play while their food 
came and proved delicious. Poulet Gloria was spatchcocked, 
with a mustard-and-cream sauce. The gicls fell silent over 
their dishes, consuming them with poUte but concentrated 
greed. There was a similar patise in the chatter at the other 
tables. Bond made conversation about the d6cor of the room 
and this gave him a chance to have a good look at the waiters. 
There were twelve of them in sight. It was not diflScult to 
sum them up as three Corsicans, three Germans, three 
vagudy Balkan faces, Turks, Bulgars, or Yugoslavs, and 
three obvious Slavs. There would probably be three French- 
men iQ the kitchen. Was this the old pattern of spectre? 
The well-tried communist-cell pattern of three men from 
each of the great gangster and secret-service organizations in 
Europe? Were the three Slavs ex-Smersh men? The whole 
lot of them looked tough enough, had that quiet smell of the 
pro. The man at the airport was one of them. Bond recognized 
others as the reception steward and the man who had come 
to his room about the table. He heard the girls calling them 
Fritz, Joseph, Ivan, Achmed. And some of them were ski- 

96 



guides during the day. Well, it wafe a nice little set-up if Bond 
was right. 

Bond excused himself after dinner on the grounds of work. 
He went to his room and laid out his books and papers on 
the desk and on the extra table that had been provided. He 
bent over them studiously while his mind reviewed the day. 

At ten o'clock he heard the goodnights of the girls down 
the corridor and the click of the doors shutting. He undressed^ 
turned the thermostat on the wall down fi:om eighty-five to 
sixty, switched oS the light, and lay on his back for a while 
staring up into the darkness. Then he gave an authentic sigh 
of exhaustion for the microphones, if any, and turned pver 
on his side and went to sleep. 

Later, much later, he was awakened by a very soft mur- 
muring that seemed to come ftom somewhere under the floor, 
but very, very far away. He identified it as a minute, spidery 
whispering that went on and on. But he could not make out 
any words and he finally put it down to the central-heating 
pipes, turned over, and went to sleep agaia. 



97 



11 



Meath for Breakfast 

James Bond awoke to a scream. It was a terrible, masculine 
scream out of hell. It fractioiially held its first high, piercing 
note and then rapidly diminished as if the man had jmnped 
off a cliff. It came j&om the rights from somewhere near the 
cable station perhaps. Even in Bond's room, muffled by the 
double windows, it was terrif^g enough. Outside it mUst 
have been shattering. 

Bond jumped up and pulled back the ciirtains, not knowing 
what scene of panic, of running men, would meet his eyes. 
But the only man in sight was one of the guides, walking 
slowly, stolidly up the beaten snow-path from the cable 
station to the dub. The spacious wooden veranda that 
stretdied from the wall of the club out over the slope of the 
mountain was empty, but tables had been laid for breakfast 
and the upholstered chaises-longue for the sunbathers had 
already been drawn up in their meticulous, colourful rows. 
The sun was blazing down out of a crystal sky. Bond looked 
at his watch. It was eight o'clock. Work began early in this 
place! People died early. For that had undoubtedly been the 
death-scream. He turned back into his room and rang the 
beU. 

It was one of the three men Bond had suspected of being 
Russians. Bond became the officer and gentleman. 'What is 

your name?' . . / . „. , ' 

'Peter sir.' 

'Piotr?;' Bond longed to say. 'And how are all my old 
friends from SMERSH?' He.didn't. He said, 'What Was that 
scream?' 

'Pliss?' The granite-grey eyes were careful. 
'A man screamed just now. From over by the cable station. 
What was it?' 

lit seems there has been an accident, sir. You wish for 
98 



breakfast?' He produced a large menu from under his arm 
and held it out clumsily. 

'What sort of an accident? ' 

'It seems that one of the guides has fallen.* 

How could this man have known that, only minutes after 
the scream? 'Is he badly hurt?' 

'Is possible, sir.' The eyes, surely trained in investigation, 
held Bond's blandly. 'You wish for breakfast?' The menu 
was pnce again nudged forward. v 

Bond said, with sufficient concern, 'Well, I hope the poor 
chap's all right.' He took the menu and ordered. 'Let me 
know if you hear what happened.' 

'There will no doubt be an announcement if the matter is 
serious. Thank you, sir.' The man withdrew. 

It was the screain that triggered Bond into deciding that, 
above all things, he must keep fit. He suddenly fdt that, 
despite all the m3^tery and its demand for solution, there 
would come a moment when he would need all his muscle. 
Reluctantly he proceeded to a quarter of an hour of knee- 
bends and press-ups and deep-breathing chest-expansions - 
exercises of the skiing musdes. He guessed that he might 
have to get away from this place. But quick! 

He took a shower and shaved. Breakfast was brought by 
Peter. 'Any more news about this poor guide?' 

'I have heard no more, sir. It concerns the outdoor staff. 
I work inside the dub.' 

Bond dedded to play it down. 'He must have slipped and 
broken an ankle. Poor chap! Thank you, Peter.' 

'Thank you, sir.' Did the granite eyes contain a sneer? 

James.Bond put his breakfast on the desk and, with some 
difficulty, maxiaged to prise open the double window. He 
removed the small bolster that lay along the sill between the 
panes to keep out draughts, and blew away the accumulated 
dust and small fly-corpses. The cold, savourless air of high 
altitudes rushed into the room and Bond went to the thermo- 
stat and put it up to 90 as a counter-attack. While, his head 
below the levd of the sill, he ate a spare continental breakfast, 
he heard the chatter of the gkls assembling outside on the 

99 



terrace. The voices were high with excitement and debate. 
Bond could hear every word. 

'I really don't think Sarah should have told on him.' 

'But he came in in the dark and started mucking her about.' 

'You mean actually wira/er»^? with her?' 

'So she says. If Fd been her, I'd have done the same. And 
he's such a beast of a man.' 

' Was, you mean. Which one was it, anyway? ' 

'OneoftheYugos. Bertil.' ' ■■ 

'Oh, I know. Yes, h6 was pretty horrible. He had such 
dreadftd teelh.' 

'You oughtn't to say such things of the dead.' 

'How do you know he's dead? What happened to him, 
anyway?' - 

'He was one of the two you see spraying the start of 
the bob-run. You see them with hoses every morning. If s to 
get it good and icy so thq^'U go faster. Fritz told me he 
somehow slipped, lost his balance, or something. And that 
was that. He just went off down the run like a sort of human 
bob-sleigh.' 

'Elizabeth! How can you be so heartless about itl' 
'Well, that's what happened. Ypu asked.' ' < . 
'But couldn't he save himsielf?' 

'Don't bft idiotic. It's sheet ice, a mile of it. And the bobs 
get up to sixty miles an hour. He hadn't got a prayer.' 

'But didn't he fly off at one of the bends?' ; 

'Fritz said he went all the way to the bottom. Crashed into 
the timing hut.. But Fritz says he, niust have been dead in the 
first hundred yards or so.' 

''Oh, here's Franz. Franz, can I have scrambled eggs and- 
coffee,? And tell them to make the scrambled eggs runny like 
I always have them.' 

'Yes, miss. And you, miss?' The waiter took the orders 
and Bond heard his boots creak off across the boards. ; ; 

The sententious girl was being sententious again. 'Well, 
all I can say is it must have been some land of punishment for 
what he tried to do to Sarah. Yiou always get paid for 
doing wrong.' 

100 



'Don't be ridiculoiK. God would oever punish you as 
severdy as that' The conversation followed this new hare 
off into a maze of infantile moiraKty and the Scriptures. 

Bond lit a dgarette and sat back, gazing thoughtfully at the 
sky. Noj the girl was right. God wouldn't mete out such a 
■punishiaent. Biit Blofeld would. Had there been one of 
those Blofeld meetings at which, before the full body of 
men, the crime and the verdict had been announced? Had 
this Bertil been taken out and dropped on to the bob-run? 
Or had his compaiiion been quietly dealt the card of death, 
told to give the sinner the trip or the light push that was 
probably all that had Ijeeh needed? More likdy. The quality 
of the scream had been of sudden, fully realized terror as the 
man feU, scrabbled at the ice with his finger-nails and boots, 
and then, as he gathered speed down the polished blue 
guUy, the blinding horror of the truth. And what a deathl 
Bond had 6nce gone down the Cresta, from 'Top', to prove 
to himself that he dared. Helmefed, masked against the blast 
of air, padded with leather and foam rubber, that had still 
been sixty seconds of naked fear. Even now' he bould re- 
member how his limbs had shaken when he rose stiffly from 
the flimsy little skeleton bob at the end of the run-out. And 
that had been a bare three-quarters of a mile. This man, or 
the flayed remains of him, had done over a mile. Had he 
gone down hfead or feet first? Had his body started tumbling? 
Had he tried, while consciousness remained, to brake himself 
over the edge of one of the early, scientifically banked bends 
with the unspiked toe of this boot or that . . .? No. After the 
first few yards, he would already have been going too fast for 
any rational thought or 'action. God, what a deaib! A typical 
Blofeld death, a typical spectre revenge for the supreme 
crime of disobedience. That was the way to keep discipline 
in the ranks! So, cdnduded Bond as he deared the tray 
away and got dowri to his .booksi spbgtre yfaSks again! But 
down what road this time? 

. *■ , ' ■'« ■• * ■ 



101 



At ten minutes to eleven, Irma Bunt came for him. After 
an exchange of affabilities. Bond gathered up an armful of 
books and papers and followed her roimd the back of the 
club building and along a narrow, well-trodden path past , a 
sign that said PRI VAT. EINTRITT VERB OTEN. 

The rest of the building, whose outlines Bond had seen the 
night before, came into view. It was an undistinguished but 
powerfully built one-storey alFair made pf local granite 
. blocks, with a flat cement roof from which, at the far end, 
protruded a small, professional-looking radio mast which. 
Bond assumed, had given the pilot his landing instructions on 
the previous night and which would also serve as the ears and 
mouth of Blofeld. The building was on the very edge of the 
plateau and below the final peak of Piz Gloria, but out of 
avalanche danger. Beneatibi it the mountain sloped sharply 
away until it disappeared over a cliff. Far below again was the 
tree line and the Bemina valley leading up to Pontresina, 
the glint of a railway track and the tiny caterpillar of a long 
goods train of the'Rhatische Bahn, on its way, presumably, 
over the Bemina Pass into Italy. 

The door to the building gave the usual pneumatic hiss, 
and the central corridor was more or less a dupHcate of the 
one at the dub, but here there were doors on both sides and 
no pictures. It vras dead quiet and there was no hint of what 
went on behind the doors. Bond put the question. . 

'Laboratories,' said Irma Bunt vaguely. 'All laboratories. 
And of course the lecture-room. Then the Count's private' 
quarters. He lives with his work, Sair Hilary.' 

•Good show.' 

They came to the end of the corridor. Irma Bunt knocked 

on the facing door. 
'Hereinl' 

James Bond was tremendously excited as he stepped over 
the threshold and heard the door sigh shut behind him. 

He knew what not to ej^ect, the original Blofeld, last year's 
model - about twenty stone, tall, pale, bland face with black 
crew-cut, black eyes with the whites showing all round, like 
MussoHni's, ugly thin mouth, long pointed hands and feet - 

102 



but he had no idea what alterations had been contrived on the 
envelope that contained the man. 

But Monsieur le Comte de Bleuvillej who now rose from 
the chaise-longue on the small private veranda and came in 
out of the sun into the penumbra of the study, his hands 
outstretched in welcome, was surely not even a distant relative 
of the man on the files ! 

Bond's heart sank. This man was talUsh, yes, and, all right, 
his hands and naked feet were long and thin. But there the 
resemblance ended. The Count had longish, carefully- 
tended, almost dandified hair that was a fine silvery white. 
His ears, .that should have been close to his head, stuck out 
sligjitly and, where they should have had heavy lobes, had 
none. The body that should have weighed twenty stone, 
now naked save for a black woollen slip, was not more than 
twelve stone, and there were no signs of the sagging flesh 
that comes from middle-aged weight-reduction. The mouth 
was full and friendly, with a pleasant, up-turned, but perhaps 
ralher rmwavering smile. The forehead was serrated with 
wrinkles above a nose that, while the files said it should be 
short and squat, was aquiline and, round the right nostril, 
eaten away, poor chap, by what looked like the badge of 
tertiary syphilis. The eyes? Well, there might be something 
there if one could see them, but they were only rather 
frightening dark-green pools. The Count wore, presumably 
against the truly dangerous sun at these altitudes, dark-green 
tinted contact lenses. 

Bond unloaded his books on to a conveniently empty table 
and took the warm, dry hand. 

'My dear Sir HUary, This is indeed a pleasure.' Blofeld's 
voice had been said to be sombre and even. This voice was 
light and full of animation, 

Bond said to himself, furiously, by God this has got to be 
Blofeld! He said, 'I'm so sorry I couldn't come on the 21st. 
There's a lot going on at the moment.' 

'Ah yes. So Fraulein Bunt told me. These new African 
States. They must indeed present a problem. Now, shall we 
settle down here' - he waved towards his desk - 'or shall we 

103 



go outside? You see* - lie gestured at his brown body - *I am 
a heliotropej a sun-worshipper. So much so that I have had 
to have these lenses devised for me. Otherwise, the ultra- 
violet rays, at this altitude . . He left the phrase unfinished. 

'I haven't seen that kind of lens before. After all, I can 
leave the books here and fetch fhem if we need them for 
reference. I have the case pretty clear in my mind. And' - 
Bond smiled chummily - 'it woulcl be nice to, go back to the 
fogs with something of a sunburn.' 

Bond had equipped himself at Lillywhites with dothing 
he thought would be both appropriate and sensible. He had 
avoided the modem elasticized vorlage trousers and had 
chosen the more comfortable but old-fashioned type of ski- 
trouser in a smooth cloth. Above these he wore an aged black 
wind-cheater that he used for golf, over his usual white sea- 
island cotton shirt. He had wisely reinforced this outfit with 
long and ugly cotton and wool pants and vests. He had 
conspicuously brand-new ski-boots with powerfial ankle- 
straps. He said, 'Then I'd better take off my sweater.' He 
did so and followed the Count out on to the veranda. 

The Goimt lay back again in his upholstered aluminium 
chaise-longue. Bond drew up a light chair made of similar 
materials. He placed it also facing the sun, but at an angle so 
that he could watch the Count's face. 

'And now,' said the Comte de Bienville, 'what have you 
got to tell me that necessitated this personal visit? ' He turned 
his fixed srcule on Bond. The dark-green glass eyes were 
unfathomable. 'Not of course that the visit is not most 
welcome^, most welcome. Now then. Sir Hilary.' 

Bond had been well trained in two responses to this 
obvious first question. The first was for the event that the 
Count had lobes to his ears. The second, if he had not. 
He now,, in measured, serious tones, laundied himself into 
Number Two. 

'My dear Coimt' - the form of address seemed dictated by 
the silvery hair, by the charm of the Coimt's manners ^ 
' there are occasions in the work of the College when research 
and paper work are simply not enough. 'W^ have, as you 

104 • ' . 



know, come to a difficult passage in our work on your case. 
I refer of couxse to the liiatus between the disappearance of 
the de Bleuville line around the time of the French Revolu- 
tion and the emergence of the Blofeld family, or families, 
in the neighbourhood of Augsburg. And' - Bond paused 
impressively - 'in the latter context I may later have a pro- 
posal that I hope will find favour with you. But what I am 
coming to is tUs. You have already expended serious funds 
on our work, and it would not have been &k to suggest that 
the researches should go forward unless there was a sub- 
stantial ray of hope in the sky. The possibility of such a ray 
existed, but it was of such a nature that it definitely demanded 
a physical conjfrontation.' 

'Is that so? And for what purpose, may I inquire?' 

James Bond recited Sable Basilisk's examples of the Habs- 
burg lip, the royal tail, and tiie others. He then leaned for- 
ward in his chair for emphasis. 'And such a physical 
pecuUarity exists in connexion with the de Bleuvilles. You 
did not know this?' 

'I was not aware of it. No, What is it?' 

'I have good news for you. Count.' Bond smiled his 
congratulations. 'All the de Bleuville eflSgies or portraits that 
we have been able to trace have been distinctive in one 'vital 
respect, in one inherited characteristic. It appears that the 
family had no lobes to their ears!' 

The Count's hands went up to Ms ears and fdt them. 
Was he acting? 

'I see,' he said slowly. 'Yes, I see.' He reflected. 'And 
you had to see this for yourself? My word, or a photograph, 
would not have been sufficient?' 

Bond looked embarrassed. 'I am sorry. Count. But that 
was the ruling of Garter King of Anns. I am only a junior 
firee-lance research worker for one of the Pursuivants. He in 
turn takes his orders in these matters ficom above. I hope you 
will appreciate that the College has to be extremely strict 
in cases concerned with a most ancient and honourable title 
such as th& one in question.' 

The dark pools aimed themselves at Bond like the muzzles 
105 



of guns. 'Now that you have secsn what you came to see, you 
regard the title as still in question?' 

This was the worst hurdle. 'What I have seen certainly 
allows me to recommend that the work should continue. 
Count. And I would say that our chances of success have 
greatiy multipUed. I have brought out the materials for a first 
sketch of the Line of Descent, and that, in a matter of days, 
I could lay before you. But alas, as .1 have said, there are still 
many gaps, and it is- most important for me to satisfy Sable 
Basilisk particularly about the stages of your family's migra- 
tion from Augsburg to Gdynia. It would be of the greatest 
help if I might question you closely about your parentage 
in the male line. Even details about your fiither iand grand- 
father would be of the greatest assistance. And then, of course, 
it would be of the utmost importance if you could spare a day 
to accompany me to Augsburg to see if the handwriting of 
these Blofeld famiHes in the Archives, their Christian names 
and other family details, awaken any memories or connexions 
in yoiu; mind. The rest would then remain with us at the 
College. I could spare no more than a week on this work. 
But I am at your disposal if you wish it' 

The Count got to his feet, Bond followed suit. He walked 
casually over to the railing and admired the view. Would 
this bedraggled fly be taken? Bond now desperately hoped so. 
During the, interview he had come.to one certain conclusion. 
There was not asingle one of the pieculiarities in the Count's 
appearance that could not have been achieved by good acting 
and by the most refined facial and stomach surgery applied 
to the original Blofeld. Only the eyes could not have been 
tsunpered witL And the eyes were obscured, 

: 'Ypu think that with patient workj even with the inclusion 
of a tew question marks , where the connecting links are 
obscure, I would achieve ah Acte de Notori^te that would 
satisfy the Minister of Justice in Paris?' 

'Most certainly,Mied Bond. ' Witij, the authority of thfe 
College in support.' 

The fixed snfile widened minutely. 'That wotlld give me 
much satisfaction. Sir Hilary. I am thd Comte de Bleuville. 

■•■106 • . ■ ■ 



I am certain of it in my 'heart, in my veins.' There was real 
fervour in the voice. 'But I am determined that my title shall , 
be officially lecognjzed. You will be most welcome to remain 
as m^y guest and I shall be coiistaiitiy at your disposal to help 
with your researches.' 

Bond said poUtely, but with a hint of weariness, of resigna- 
tion, 'All right. Count. Ajid tiank you, I will go and make a 
start straight away.' 



107 



12 



Two Near Misses 

Bond was shown out of the building by a man in a white 
coat with the conventional white gauze of the laboratory 
worker over the lower half of his face. Bond attempted no 
conversation. He was now well inside the fortress, but he 
would have to continue to walk on tiptoe and be damned 
careful where he put his feet! 

He returned to his room and got out one of the _giant 
sheets of squared paper with which he had been furnished. 
He sat down at his table and wrote firmly at the top centre 
of the paper 'Guillaume de Bleuville, 1207-1243'. Now there 
were five hundred years of de Bleuvilles, with their wives 
and children, to be copied down from his books and notes. 
That would fill up an impressive number of pages with 
impeccable fact. He could certainly spread that chore over 
three days, interspersed with more tricky work - gassing with 
Blofeld about the Blofeld end of the story. Fortunately there 
were some English Blofields he could throw in as make- 
weight. And some Bluefields and Blumfidds. He could start 
some pretty hares running in those directions! And, in 
between these idiotic activities, he would ferret and ferret 
away at the mystery of what in hell the new Blofeld, the new 
SPECTRE, were, up to! 

One thing was certain, they had already been through 
his belongings. Before going for his interview. Bond had 
gone into the bathroom, away from that seemingly watchful 
hole in the ceiling, and had painfully pulled out half a dozen 
of his hairs. These, while he had selected the books he 
needed to take with him, he had dispersed inconspicuously 
among his other papers and in his passport. The hairs were 
all gone. Someone had been through all his books. He got 
up and went to the chest of drawers, ostensibly for a hand- 
kerchief. Yes, the careful patterns in which he had laid out 

108 



his things had all been minutely disturbed. Unemotionally 
he went back to his work^ thanking heaven he had travelled 
as 'clean' as a whistle! But by God he'd have to keep his 
cover solid I He didn't at all like the thought of that one-way 
trip down the bob-run! 

Bond got as far as 1350 and then the noise from the 
veranda became too distracting. Anyway, he had done a 
respectable stint, almost to the bottom of lie giant page. He 
would go out and do a little very discreet exploring. He 
wanted to get his bearings, or rather confirm them, and this 
would be a perfectly reasonable activity for a newcomer. 
He had left his door mto.the passage ajar. He went out and 
along to the reception lounge, where the man in the plum 
coat was busy entering the names of the morning's visitors 
in a book. Bond's greeting was politely answered. There was 
a ski-room and workshop to the left of the exit Bond 
wandered in. One of the Balkan types was at the work- 
bench, screwing a new binding on to a ski. He looked up and 
went on with his work while Bond gazed with seeming 
curiosity at the ranks of skis standing along the wall. Things 
had changed since his day. The bindings were quite different 
and designed, it seemed, to keep the heel dead flat on the ski. 
And there were new safety releases. Many of the skis were of 
metal and the sM-sticks were fibre-glass lances that looked 
to Bond extremely dangerous in the event of a bad fall. 
. Bond wandered over to the work-bench and feigned interest 
in what the man was doing. In fact he had seen something 
that excited him very much - an imtidy pile of lengths of 
thin plastic strip for the boot to rest on in the binding, so 
that, on the shiny surface, snow would not ball under the 
sole. Bond leaned over the work-bench, resting on his right 
elbow, and commented on the precision of the man's work. 
The man grunted and concentrated all the more closely to 
avoid fmther conversation. Bond's left hand sUd under his 
leaning arm, secured one of the strips and slid it up his 
sleeve. He made a further inane comment, which was not 
answered, aind strolled out of the ski-room. 

(When the man in the workshop heard the front door hiss 
109 



shut, he tutned to the pfle of plastic strips and counted them 
carefully twice. Then he went out to the man in the plum- 
coloured coat and spoke to him in German. The man nodded 
and picked up the telephone receiver and dialled O. The 
workman went stolidly back to hk ski-room.) 

As Bond strolled along tl^e path that led to the cable 
station, he transferred the plastic strip from his sleeve to his 
trouser pocket, feeling pleased with himself. He had at least 
provided himSelf widi one tool ~ the traditional burglar's 
tppl for opening the Yale-type locks that secured the doors. 

Away from the dub house, to which only a thin trickle of 
smart-looking people were making their way, he got into the 
usual mountain-top crowd - people swarming out of the 
cable-head, skiers wobbling or schussing down the easy 
nursery slopes on the plateau, litde groups marshalled under 
individual teachers and guides from the valley. The terrace 
of the public restaurant was already crowded vnth the under- 
privileged who hadn't got the money or the connexions to 
join the dub. He walked below it on the well-trampled snow 
and stood among tht Skiers at thes top of the first plungiog 
sdiuss of the Gloria run. A large libtice-bojsrd, crowned with 
the G and the coronet, announced gloria abfahrt! Then 

below, ROT - FREIE FAHRT. GELB - iFRElE FAHRT. 

SCHWARZ - GESEERRTi meaning that the red and yellow 
.runs were open but the black closed, presumably because 
of avalanche danger, Below this again was a painted metal 
map of the three runs. Bond had a good look at it, reflecting 
that it might be wise to comnjit to memory the red, whidi was 
presumably the easiest and most popular. There were red, 
yellow, and black marker flags on the map, and Bond could 
see the actual flags fluttering way down the mountain until 
.the runs, studded with tiny moving figures, disappeared to 
the left, round the shoulder of the mountain and undet the 
cable rSilway. The red seemed to continue to zigzag under 
the cable and between thei fev? high pylons until' it met the 
tree line. Then there was a short stretch of wood-running 
until the final easy schuss across the undulating lowef 
meadows to the bottom cable-head, beyond which lay the 

no' ■ ■ ■ ■ . 



main railway line and then the Pontresina-Samaden road. 
Bond tried to get it aU fixed in his mind. Then he watched 
some of the starts. These varied between the arrow-like 
dive of the Kannonen, the stars, who took the terrific schuss 
dead straight in a low crouch with their sticks jauntily 
tucked under their arm-pits^ the average amateur who braked 
perhaps three or four times on his way down, and the terrified 
novice who, with stuck-out behind,' stemmed his way down, 
his skis angled and edged like a snow-plough,: with occasional 
straight runs diagonally across the polished slope - dashing 
little sprints that usually ended in a mild crash as he ran off 
the flattened surface into the thick powder snow that edged 
the wide, beaten piste. ' 

The scene was the; same as ai thoUsiand others Bond had 
witnessed when, as^a teenager, he learned his skiing in the 
old Hannes Schneider School at St Anton in the Arlberg. , 
He had got pretty good and had won his golden K, but the 
style in those dajs was rudimeatary Compared with what 
he was now witnessing from the occasional expert who 
zoomed down and away firom besidie him. Today the metal 
skis seemed to fun faster and truer than the old steel-edged , 
hickory. There was less shoulder-^work and the art of 
Weddn, a gentle waggling of the hips, was a revelaridni. 
Would' it be as effective in deep new snow as it was on the 
Well-beaten, piste? Bond was doubtful, but he was envious ' 
of it. It was so much niore graceful than the old Arlberg. 
crouch; Bond wondered how he would fare on this terrific 
run. ' He would certainly not dare to take the first schuss 
straight. He would brake at least twice, perhaps there and 
there. And his legs would be trembling before he had been 
going for five minutes; His knees and ; ankles and wrisK 
would be giving out He must get on Vaifti. his exetcfaes;! 

Bond, excited, left the scefle and followed arrows that 
pointed to the GLORIA EXPRESS BOB-RUN, It lay on the 
other side of the .cable station. There was a small wooden 
hut, the starter's hut, with tdephone-wires Connected, to the 
statioti, and, beneath the cable station, a little 'garage' , that 
, housed the bpb-sleighs and one-man skdeton-bobs. A chain, ' 
• r: 111... . ■■■■■■ . .■ >...'■' 



with a notice on it saying abfahrten taglich 0900- 
1 100, was stretched across the wide moutih of the gulch of 
blue ice that curved away to the left and then disappeared 
over the shoulder. Here again was a metal map showing the 
zigzag course of the run down iuto the vaUey. In deference 
to the English traditions at the sport, outstanding curves and 
hazards were marked with names such as 'Dead Man's 
Leap', 'Whizz-Bang Straight', 'Batding S', 'Hell's Delight', 
'The Boneshaker', and the finishing straight down 'Paradise 
Alley'. Bond visualized the scene that morning, heard again 
that heart-rending scream. Yes, that death certainly had the 
old Blofeld touch! 
'Sak Hilary! Sair Hilary!' 

Startled out of his thoughts. Bond turned. Fraulein Irma 
Bunt, her short arms akimbo, was standing on the path to 
the dub. 

' Lunch time ! Lunch ! ' 

'Coming,' Bond called back, and strolled up the slope 
towards her. He noted that, even in that hundred yards, 
his breathing was shallow and his limbs were heavy. This 
blasted height! He really must get into training! 

He came up with her. She looked surly. He said that he was 
sorry, he had not noticed the time. She said nothing. The 
yellow eyes surv^ed him with active dislike before she 
turned her back and led the way along the path. 

Bond looked back over the morning. What had he done? 
Had he made a mistake? Well, he just might have. Better 
re-iasure! As they came through the entrance into the recep- 
tion lounge. Bond said casually, 'Oh, by the way, FrSulein 
Bunt, I was in the ski-room just now.' 

She halted. Bond noticed that the head of the receptionist 
bent a ftaction lower over his visitors' book. 

'Yes?' 

Bond took the length of plastic out of his pocket. 'I found 
just what I wanted.' He stitched a smile of innocent pleasure 
on his face. 'Like an idiot I forgot to bring a ruler with ipe. 
And there were these things on the work-bench. Just rights 
So I borrowed one. I hope that was all right. Of course I'll 

112 



leave it behind when I go. But for these family trees, you 
know' - Bond sketched a series of descending straight lines 
in the air - 'oneJias to get them on the right levds. I hope 
yoii don't mind.' He smiled charmingly; *I was going to 
confess the next time I saw you.' 

Irma Bunt veiled her eyes. 'It is of no consequence. In 
future, anything you need you will perhaps ring for, isn't it? 
The Count wishes you to have every facility. Now' - shfe 
gestured - *if you will perhaps go out on the terrace. You 
will be shown to our table. I wUl be with you in a moment.' 

Bond went through the restaurant door. Several of the 
interior tables were occupied by those who had had enough 
sun. He went across the room and put through the now open 
frendk windows. The man Fritzj who appeared to be the 
maitre d'hfitel, came towards him through the crowded 
tables. His eyes too were cold with hostility. He held up a 
menu. 'Please to follow me.' 

Bond followed him to the table up against the railing. 
Ruby and Violet were already there. Bond felt almost hght- 
hearted with relief at having clean hatids again. By God, he 
must pay attentiojij take care! This time he had got away 
with it And he stiU had the strip of plastic! Had he sounded 
innocent enough, stupid enough? He sat down and ordered a 
double medium-dry vodka Martini, on the rocks, with lemon 
peel, and edged his feet up against Ruby's. 

She didn't withdraw hers. She smiled. Violet smiled. They 
all started talking at once. It was suddenly a beautiful day. 

Fraulein Bimt appeared and took her place. She was 
gracious again. 'I am so pleased to hear that you will be 
staying with us for a whole week, Sair Hilary. You enjoyed 
your interview with the Count? Is he not an interesting 
man?' 

'Very interesting. Unfortunately our talk was too short 
and we discussed only my own subject. I was longing to ask 
him about his researdi work. I hope he didn't think me very 
rude.' • 

Lma Bunt's face dosed perceptibly. 'I am sure not. The 
Count does not often like to discuss hisi work. In these 

113 



spedalized scientific .fidds, you understand, there is much 
jealousy and, I am sorry to say, much intellectual thieving.' 
The box-like smile. 'I do not of course refer to yourself, my 
dear Sair Hilary, but to scientists less scrupulous than the 
Count, to spies firom the chemical companies. That is why 
we keep ourselves very much to ourselves in our little Eagle's 
Nest up here. We have total privacy. Even the police in the 
valley are most co-operative in safeguarding us from in- 
truders. They appreciate what the Count is doing.' 
' The study of allergies? ' 

'Jnst so.' The maitre d'hStd was standing by her side. His 
feet came together with a perceptible cUck. Menus were 
handed round and Bond's drink came. He took a long pull 
at it and ordered CEufs Gloria and a green salad. Chicken 
again for Ruby, cold cuts 'with stacks of potatoes' for 
Violet. Irma Bunt ordered her usual cottage cheese and salad. 

'Don't you girls eat anything but chicken and potatoes? 
Is this something to do with your allergies?' 

Ruby began, 'Well, yes, in a way. Somehow I've come 
to simply love . . .' 

Irma Bunt broke in sharply. 'Now then. Ruby. No dis- 
cussion of treatments, you remember? Not even with our 
good friend Sair Hilary.* She waved a hand towards the 
crowded tables around them. 'A most interesting crowd, do 
you not find, Sair Hilary? Everybody who is anybody. We 
have quite taken the international set away &om Gstaad and 
St Moritz. That is your Duke of Marlborough over there 
with such a gay party of young things. And near by that is 
Mr Whitney and Lady Daphne Straight. Is she not chic? 
They are both wonderful skiers. And that beautiful girl 
with the long fair hair at the big table, that is Ursula Andress, 
the film star. What a wonderful tan she has! And Sir George 
Dunbar, he always has the most enchanting companions.' 
The box-like smile. 'Why, we only need lie Ap Khan and 
perhaps your Duke of Kent and we would have everybody, 
but everybody. Is it not sensational for the first season?' 

Bond said it was. The lunch came. Bond's eggs were 
ddidous - diopped hard-boiled eggs, vrith a cream and 

114 



cheese sauce laced with English mustard (English mustard 
seemed to be the clue to the Gloria specialities), gratines in 
a copper dish. Bond commented on the excellence of the 
cooking. 

'Thank you/ said Irma Bunt. 'We have three ejcpert 
Frenchmen in the kitchen. Men are very good at cooking, 
is it not?' 

Bond felt rather than saw a man approadiing their table. 
He came up to Bond. He was a military-looking man, of 
about Bond's age, and he had a pu2zled expression on his 
face. He bowed slightly to the ladies and said to Bon,d, 
'Excuse me, but I saw your name in the visitors* book. It is 
Hilary Bray, isn't it?' " 

Bond^s heart sank. This situation had always been a 
possibility and he had prepared a fumbling counter to it. 
But this was the worst possible moment with that damned 
woman watching and listening! 

Bond said, 'Yes, it is,' with heartiness. 

'Sir Hilary Bray?' The pleasant face was even more 
puzzled. 

Bond got to his feet and stood with his back to bis table, 
to Irma Bunt. 'That's right.' He took out his handkerchief 
and blew his nose to obscure the next question, which might 
be fatal. ' ' • ■ 

'In the Lovat Scouts during the war?' 

'All,' said Bond. He looked worried, lowered his voice 
appropriately. 'You're thinking of my first cousin. From Ben 
Trilleadian. Died six months ago, poor chap. I inherited the 
title.' 

'Oh, lord!' The man's puzzlement cleared. Grief took its 
place. 'Sorry to hear that. Great pal of mine in the war. 
Funny! I didn't see anything about it in The Times. Always 
read ih& "Births, JWarriages, and Deaths". What was, it?* 

Bond felt the sweat running down under his arms. 'Fell 
off one of those bloody mountains of his. Broke his neck.* 

'My God! Boor chap! But he was always foohng around 
the tops by himself. I must write to Jenny at once.* He held 
out his hand. 'Well, sorry to have butted in. Thought this 

115 - 



■ was. a fatiny place to find old Hilary. Well, so long,. and sotry 
again.' He moved off between the tables. Out of the comer 
of his eycj Bond saw him rejoin a yery English-looking table 
of men and^ obviously,; wives, t6 whom' he began talking 

" animatedly. ..■ }''-'•■'■'■■'..:■■ ':' ■■ : J':'-. 

Bond sat down, readhed fbr lus!drinfc;and drained it arid 
went back to his eggs. The woman's eyes were on him. He 
felt the sweat running down his face. He took out his hand- 
kerchief and mopped at it. 'Gosh, it's hot out here in lie sun! 

; That was spnie pal of my first cotisin-s. My cousin had the 
same name. Collateral branch.'Die(l hot long agoi poor chap.' 
He Jiowned sadly. 'Didn't know this man &om Adam. Nice- 
lookihg feUow.' Bond looked bravely across the table. 'Do 
you know any of his party, Fraulein Bunt?' 

Without looking at ,tihe pjtrty, Fxaulein B^^^ 
'No, I do iiot know evayone wbo comes here.* The yellow 
eyes were still inquisitive, holding his. 'But it was a curious 
coincidence. Were you very alike, you and your cousin?' " 

, 'Oh, absolutely,' said Bond, gushing. 'Spit image. Often 
used to get taken for each olher.'. He Iboked across at the 
English group. Thank God tiiey vpere picking Up their things 
and going. They didn't look particularly smart or prosperous, 
Probably staying at Pontresim or under the ex-officers' 
scheme at St Moritz. Typical' English skiing party. With 
any luck they were just doing the big nins in the ndghboiif:- 
hood one by one. Bond, reviewed the way the conversatioti 
had gone while coffee carae,and he made cheerful small talk 
with Rubyi whose foot was again clamped against his, about 
her skiing progress iiiat morning, ,^ 
, Well, he decided, the woman couldn't have heard rhuch 
of ' it with all the clatter and chatter from the surrounding ; 
tables. But it had been a narrow s^ueai^ a danlried narrow 
squeak. The second of the day! , : . ■ 
• . So much for walkmg oa ti^^ 
' Not jpod\^QUghi,PeM^y ^9)^ g<x)d;?npugkl . ; 



116 



13 



■ ; Princess Ruby? 

■ My dear Sable Basilisk, 
:.: I arrived safely - by heUcbpter, if you please! - at 

diis beautiful place called Piz Gloria, 10^000 feet up some- 
where in tbe Engadine. Most comfortable willi an excellent 
male stafFofseva^alnationaHtiep and amost^cientjsecretary 
to the Count named Frauleiri Irma Bunt who tells me that 
/ she c0mes fi:om Munich: ; 
' I had a most profitable interview with the Count this 
morning as a result of which he wishes me to stay on for ai 
week to cordplete the first draft of his genealogicd trefe. I do 
; ' hope you can spare me for so long. I warned the Count that 
we had much wofk to do on the new Cbmmpnwealth S):ates, 
He hiinselfi though busily enpged on wlMt som 
public-spirited resea^i^ work on allergies and their cause 
(he has ten EngUsh girls here as Ms patients), has agreed to 
, see me daily in the hope that together we may be able to ' 
bridge the gap between the migration of the de Bleuvilles 
firom France and their subsequoit ttahsferencej as Blofelds, 
5, from Augsburg to Gdynia. I have suggested to him that we 
# conclude the work with a quick visit to Augsburg for the 
; purposes you and I discussed, but he has not yet given me 
ji-'^^X'W^'decision. , ■'■■•„ 

^ ' ; iPIe&se teU my cousiti Jenny Bfajr Aat she;inay b6 hearing l ^ 
from a friend' of her late husband who apparently served 

i.;. with him in the Lovat Scouts. He qune up to me at lunch 
today iahd took me forthe Other Hilaty! Quite a coincidence! 
Working conditions are excdlatifc ^ ^e have complete 

■ privacy here, secure froitn thje madding world of skiers, and 
very sensibly the girls are confined to their . rooins after ten 
at night to put them out of the, temptation of roaming and 
gossiping. They seem a very Mce lot, from aU over the I^^ 
Kingdom, but rather on the dumb side! " : , 

K . ii7 :.-;:^ -"-V;'r'^'-^-- '" 



Now for my most interesting item. The Comit has -not 
got lobes to his ears! Isn't that good news! He also is of a 
most distinguished appearance and bearing with a fine head 
of silvery hair and a charming smile. His sHm figure also 
indicates noble extraction. Unfortunately he has to wear 
dark-green contact lenses because of weak eyes and the 
strength of the sunshine at this height, and his aquiline nose 
is blemished by a deformed nostril which I would have 
thought could easily have been put right by facial surgery. 
He speaks impeccable English with a gay lilt to his voice 
and I am sure that we will get on very well. 

Now to get down to business. It would be most helpful if 
you would get in touch with the old printers of the Almanach 
de .Gotha and see if they can help us over om: gaps in the 
lineage. They may have some traces. Cable anything helpful. 
With the new evidence of the ear-lobes I am quite confident 
that the connexion exists. 

That's all for now. 

Yours ever, 

HILARY BRAY 

P.S. Don't teU my mothetj or she will te worried for my 
safety .among the eternal snows! But we had a nasty 
accident here this morning. One of the staflE, a Yugoslav 
it seems, slipped on the bob-run and went the whole way 
to the bottom! Terrible blisiness. He's apparently being 
buried in Pontresina tomorrow. Do you think we ought to 
send some kind of a wreath? H.B. 

Bond read the letter several times. Yes, that would give 
the officers in charge of Operation 'Corona' plenty to bite on. 
Particularly the hint that they should get the dead man's 
name ftorn the registrar in Pontresina. And he had covered 
up a bit on the Bray mix-up when the letter, as Bond was sure 
it would be, was steamed open and photostated before 
dispatch. They might of course just destroy it. To prevent 
this, the bit of bogosity about the Ahnanach de Gotha would 
be a dincher. This source of heraldic knowledge hadn't been 

118 



mentioned before. It would surely excite the interest of 
Blofeld. ' 

Bond rang the bellj handed out the letter for dispatch, 
and got back to his work, which consisted initially of going 
into the bathroom with the strip of plastic and his scissors 
in his pocket and snipping two inch-wide strips off the end. 
These would be enough for the purposes he and, he hoped. 
Ruby would put them to. Then, using the first joint of his 
thumb as a rough guide, he marked off the remaining 
eighteen inches into inch measures, to support his lie about 
the ruler, and went back to his desk and to the next hundred 
years of the de Bleuvilles. 

At about five o'clock the light got so fcad that Bond got up 
from his table and stretched, preparatory to going over to the 
fight-switch near the door. He took a last look out of the 
window before he closed it. The veranda was completely 
deserted and the foam rubber cushions for the redinirig- 
chairs had akeady been taken in. From the ditection of the 
cable-head there still came the whine of machinery that had 
been part of the background noises to the day. Yesterday the 
railway had dosed at about five, and it must be time for the 
last pair of gondolas to complete their two-way journey and 
settle in their respective stations for the night. Bond closed 
the double windows, walked across to tht thermostat and put 
it down to seventy. He waS, just about to reach for the light- 
switdi when there came a very soft tajiping at the dpot. 

Bond kept his voice low. 'Gome ih!' 

The door opened and quiddy closed to within an inch of 
the lock. It was Ruby. She put her fingers to her lips and > 
gestured towards the bathroom. Bond, highly intrigued, 
followed her in and shut the door. Then he turned on the 
> Kght. She was blushing. She whispered imploringly, 'Oh, 
please forgive me. Sir Hilary. But' I did so want to talk to 
you for a second.' . 

'Thafs fine. Ruby. But why the bathroom?' 

• Oh, didn't you know? No, 1 suppose you wouldn't. It's 
supposed to be a secret, but of cpiuse I can tell you. You 
won't let on, wiU.you?' 

■ ■ ' ' 119, <.■''■' 



'Noj of course not' 

'Well, all the rooms have microphones in them. I don't 
know ■where. But sometimes we girls have got together in 
each other's rooms, just for a gossip, you know, and Miss 
Bunt has always known. We think they've got some sort of 
tdevision too.' She giggled. 'We always undress in the bath- 
room. It's jiist a sort of feeling. As if one was being watched 
the whole time. I suppose it's something to do with the 
treatment' 

'Yes, I expert so.' 

'The point is. Sir Hilary, I was tremendously excited by 
what you were saying at lunch today, about Miss Bunt 
perhaps being a duchess. I mean, is that really possible?' 

'Oh yes,' said Bond airily. 

'I was so disappointed at not being able to tell you my 
surname. You see, you see' - her eyes were wide with excite- 
ment - 'it's Windsor !' 

'Gosh,' said Bond, 'that's interesting!' 

'I knew you'd say that. You see, there's always been talk , 
in my family that we're distantly connected witii the Royal 
Fanaily!' 

'I can quite understand that' Bond's voice was thoughtful, 
judicious. 'I'd like to be able to do some work on that. What 
were your parents' names? I must have them first' 

'George Albert Windsor and Mary Potts. Does that mean 
anything?' 

'Well, of course,, the Albert's significant.' Bond felt a cur. 
'You see, there was the Prince Consort to Queen Victoria. 
He was Albert.' 

'Oh golly 1' Ruby's knuckles went up to her mouth. 

'But of course all this needs a lot of working on. Where do 
you come from in England? Where were you bom?' 

'In Lancashire. Morecambe Bay, where the shrimps come 
firom. But a lot of poultry too. You know.' 

'So that's why you love chicken so much,' 

*0h, no.' She seemed surprised by the remark. 'That's 
just the point. You see, I was allergic to chickens. I simply 
couldn't bear them - all those feathers, ilie stupid peeking, 

120 



the mess and the smell. I loathed them. Even eating cliicken 
brought me out in a sort of rash. It was awful, and of course 
my parents were mad at me, they being poultry farmers, in 
quite a big way and me being supposed to help clean out the 
batteries - you know, those modem mass-produced chicken 
places. And then one day I saw this advertisement in the 
paper, in the Poultry Fanner's Gazette. It said that anyone 
suffering from chicken allergy - then followed a long Latin 
name - could apply for a course of re ... of re ... for a cure 
in a Swiss institute doing research work on the thing. All 
found and ten pounds a week pocket-money. Rather like 
those people who go and act as rabbits in that place that's 
trying to find a cure for colds.' 

'I know/ said Bond encouragingly. 

'So I- applied and my fare was paid down to London and I 
met Miss Bunt and she put me through some sort of exam,' 
She giggled. 'Heaven only knows how I passed it, as I failed 
my G.C.E. twice. But she said I was just what the Institute 
wanted and I came out here about two months ago. It's not 
bad. They're terribly strict. But the Count has absolutely 
cured my trouble. I simply love chickens now.' Her eyes 
became suddenly rapt. ' I think they're just the most beautiful, 
wonderful birds in the world.' 

'Well, that's a jolly good show,' said Bond, totally mysti- 
fied. 'Now about your name. FU get to work on it right away. 
But how are we going to talk? You all seem, to be pretty 
carefully organized. How can I see you by yoursdf? The 
only place is my room or yours.' 

'You mean at night?' The big blue eyes were wide with 
fright, excitement, maidenly appraisal. 

'Yes, it's the only way.' Bond took a bold step towards 
her and kissed her fhll oh the mouth. He put his arms round 
her dumsily. 'And you know I think you're terribly attrac- 
tive.' 

'Oh, Shr Hilary!' 

But she didn't recoil. She just stood tnere like a great 
lovely doll, passive, slightly calculating, wanting to be a 
princess. 'But how would you get out of here? They're 

121 



terribly strict A guard goes up and down the passage every 
so often. Of course' - the eyes were calculating - 'it's true 
that I'm next door to you, in Number Three actually. If 
only we had some way of getting out.' 

Bond took one of the inch strips of pk^c out of his 
pocket and showed it to her. 'I knew you were somewhere 
dose to me. Instinct^ I suppose. [Cad!] I learned a thing or 
two in the Army. You can get out of these sort of , doors by 
slipping this in the door crack in firont of the lock and 
pushing. It slips the latch. Here, take thisj I've got another. 
But hide it away. And promise not to teU anyone.' 

*Ooh! You are a one! But of course I promise. But do 
you think there's any hope - about the Windsors, I mean?' 
Now she put hisr arms round his neck, tound the witch- 
doctor's ned;, and the big blue orbs gazed appealin^^y 
into his. 

'You definitely mustn't rdy on it/ said Bond firmly, 
trying to get back an ounpe 6f lis self-respect. 'But I'U have 
a quick look now in my books. Not mudi time before 
drinks. Anyway, we'll see.' He gave her another long and, 
he admitted to himself extremely splendid kiss, to which she 
responded with an animalism that slightly salved his con- 
sdence. 'Now then, baby.' His rigiht hand ran down her back 
to the curve of her behind, to which he gave an mcouraging 
and hastening pat. 'We've' got to get you out of here.' 

His bedroom was dark. They listened at the door like two 
children playing hide-and-seek. The building was in silence. 
He inched open the door. He gave the behind an extra pat 
and she was gone. 

Bond paused for a moment. Then he switched on the 
light. The ionocent room smiled at him. Bond went to his 
table and reached for the Dictionary , of British Surnames. 
Windsor, Windsor, Windsor. Here we atei Now then! As he 
bent over* the small print, an important reflection seared his 
spy's mind like a shooting star. All right. So sexual per- 
versions, and sex itself, were a main security risk. So was 
greed for money. But what about status? What about that 
most insidious of vices, snobbery? 

■ ■' 122 ■ 



Six o'clock came. Bond had a nagging headache, brought 
on by hours of poring over small-print reference books and 
aggravated by the lack of oxygen at the high altitude. He 
needed a drink, three drinks. He had a quick shower and 
smartened himself up, rang his bell for the 'warder' and 
went along to the bar. Only a few of the girls were already 
there. Violet sat alone at the bar and Bond joined her. She 
seemed pleased to see him. She was drinking a Daiquiri. 
Bond ordered another and, for himself, a double Bourbon 
on the rocks. He took a deep pull at it and put the squat glass 
down. 'By God, I needed that! I've been working like a 
slave all day while you've been waltzing about the sH-slopes 
in the sunl' 

'Have I indeed!' A slight Irish brogue came out with the 
indignation. 'Two lectures this morning, frightfiilly boring, 
and I had to catch up with my reading most of this afternoon. 
I'm' way behind with it.' 
'What sort of reading?' 

'Oh, sort of agricultural stuff.' The dark eyes watched 
him carefully. 'We're not supposed to talk about our cures, 
you know.' 

'Oh, well,' said Bond cheerfully, 'then let's talk about 
something else. Where do you come from?' 
'Ireland. The South. Near Shannon.* . 
Bond had a shot in the dark. 'All that potato country.' 
'Yes, that's right. I used to hate tiem. Nothing but 
potatoes to cat and potato crops to talk about. Now I'm 
longing to get back. Funny, isn't it?' 
'Your family'll be pleased.' 

'You can say that again! And my boy friend! He's on the 
wholesale side. I said I wouldn't marry anyone who had 
anything to do with the damned, dirty, ugly things. He's 
going to get a shock all right . . .' 
: - 'How's that?' 

'All I've learned about how to improve the crop. The latest 
scientific ways, chemicals, and so on.' She put her hand up 
to her mouli. She glanced swiftly round the room, at the 
bartender. To see if anyone had heard this innocent stuff? 
> 123 



She put on a hostess smile. 'Now you tell me what youVe 
been working on^ Sir Hilary.' 

'Oh, just some heraldic stuflf for the Cbunt Like I was 
talking about at lunch. I'm afiraid you'd find it fiightfully 
dry stuff.' 

'Oh noj I wouldn't. I was terribly interested in what you 
were saying to Miss Bunt. You see' - she lowered her yoice 
and spoke into her raised glass - 'Fm an O'Neill. They used 
to be almost kinp of Ireland. Do you think . . .' She had 
seen sometHing over his shouldac. She went on smoothly, 
'And I simply can't get my shoulders round enough. And 
when I try to I simply over-balance.' 

"Fraid I don't know anything about skiing,' said Bond 
loudly. 

Irma Bunt appeared in the mirror over the bar. 'Ah, Sair 
Hilary.' She inspected his face. 'But yes, you are aheady . 
getting a little of the sunbxim, isn't it? Come! Let us go tod 
sit down. I see poor Miss Ruby oyer there all by herself.' 

They followed her meekly. Bond was amused, by the little 
undercurrent of rule-breaking that went on among the girls - 
'the typical resistance pattern to strict discipline and the 
governessy ways of this hideous matron. He must be careful 
how he handled it, useful: though it was proving. It wotildn't 
do to get these girls too much 'oil ids side'. But, if only 
because the Count didn't want him to know them, he must 
somehow ferret away, at their surnames and addresses. 
Ferret! That was the word! Ruby would be his ferret. Bond 
sat down beside her, the back of his hand casually brushing 
against her shoidder.' 

More drinks were ordered. The Bourbon was beginning 
to uncoil Bond's tensions. His headache, instead of occupying 
his whole head, had localized itsdf b^rbd the right temple. 
He said, gaily, 'Shall we play the game again?' 

There was a chorus of approv^. The glass and paper 
napkins were brought from the bar and now more of the 
girls joined in. Bond handed round cigarettes and the girls 
puffed vigorously, occasionally 'choking over tiae smoke. 
Even Irma Bpnt seemed infected by the laughter and. squeals 
. ■ ■ ■" 124 ■ 



of excitement as the cobweb of |5aper became more and more 
tenuous. 'Careful! Gently^ Elizabeth! Ayee! But now you 
have done it! And there was. still this litde comer that was 

skfe!'-'- 

Bond was next to her. Now he sat back and suggested 
that the girls should have a game among themselves. He 
tmned to Ftaulein Bunt. 'By the way, if I can find the time, 
it tarbssed my mind that it might be fun to go down in the 
cable car and pay a visit to the valley. I gathered fiom talk 
;among the aowds today that St Moritz is the other side of 
the valley. Fve never been there. I'd love to see it' 

'Alas, my dear Sair Bfilary^ but that is agaiiist the rules of 
the house. Guests here, and the staff too, have no access to 
the Seilbahn. That is only for the tourists. Here we keep 
ourselves to ourselves. We are - how shall I say? - a little 
dedicated Conimunity. We observe the rules ahnost of a 
monastery. It is better so, Kn't it? Thus we can pursue our 
researches in peace.' 

*0h, I quite see that.' Bond's smile was understanding, 
friendly. 'But I hardly count myself as a patient here, resdly. 
Couldn't an exception be made in my case?' 

'I think that would be si mistake^ Sair Hilary. And surely 
you will need all the time you ikve to complete your duties 
for the Count. No' - it was an order - 'I am afraid, with 
many apologies, that what you ask is out of the question.' 
She glanced at her watch and dapped lier hands. 'And now, 
girls,' she i^ied, 'it is time for the supper. Come along! 
Come along!' ■ > : ■ ' 

It had only been a try-on, to see what form the negative 
>answeb:::WQuldiake. But^ as Bond followed her into the dining- 
room, it was . quite an ejQEbrt to restniin his right shoe from 
giving Irma Bunt a really txem^dous kick in her tight, 
bulging behind. 



125 



14 



Sweet Dreams - Sweet Nightmare ! 

It was eleven o'clock and tie place was as quiet as the 
grave. Bond, with due respect for the eye in the ceiling, 
went through the motions of going to the bathroom and 
then climbing into bed and switching off his light. He gave 
it ten minutes, then got quietly out of bed and pulled on his 
trousers and shirt. Working by touch, he slipped the end of 
the inch of plastic into the door crack, found the lock and 
pressed gentiy. The edge of the plastic caught the curve of 
the lock and sUd it back. Bond now only had to push gently 
and the door was open. He listened, his ears pricked like an 
animal's. Then he carefoUy put his head out The empty 
corridor yawned at hinl. Bond slipped out of the door, closed 
it soMy, took the few steps along to Number Three and 
gentiy turned the handle. It was dark inside but there was a 
stirring in the bed. Now to avoid the click of the shutting 
door! Bond took his bit of plastic and got it against the lock, 
holding it in the mortice. Then he inched the door shut, 
at the same time gently withdrawing the plastic. The lock 
slid noiselessly into place. 

There came a whisper from the bed. 'Is that you?' 
■ 'Yes, darling.' Bond slid out of his clothes and, assuming 
the same geography as in his own room, walked gingerly 
over to the bed and sat down on its edge. 

A hand came out of the darkness and touched him. *Ooh, 
you've got nothing on!' 

Bond caught the hand and reached along it. 'Nor have 
you,' he whispered. 'That's how it should be.' 

Gingerly he lay down on the bed and put his head beside 
hers on the pillow. He noticed with a pang of pleasure that 
she had left room for him. He kissed her, at first sofdy and 
then with fierceness. Her body stirred. Her mouth yielded 
to his and when his left hand began its exploration she put 

126 



her arms round him. 'Fm catching cold.' Bond followed the 

lie by pulling the single sheet away firom under him and then 
covering them both with it. The warmth and softness of her 
splendid body were now all his. Bond lay against her. .He 
drew the fingernails of his left hand softly down her flat 
stomach. The velvety skin fluttered. She gave a small groan 
and reached down for his hand and held it. 'You do love me 
aUttlebit?' 

That awful question! Bond whispered, 'I think you're the 
most adorable, beautiful girl. I wish I'd met you before.' 

The stale, insincere words seemed to be enough. She 
removed her restraining hand. 

Ha hair smelt of new-mown summer grass, her mouth of 
Pepsodent, and her body of Mennen's Baby Powder. A small 
night wind rose up outside and moaned round the building, 
giving an extra sweetness, an extra warmth, even a certain 
friendship to what was no more than an act of physical 
passion. There was real pleasure in what they did to each 
other, and in the end; when it was over and they lay quietly 
in each other's arms. Bond knew, and knew that the girl 
knew, that they had done nothing wrong, done no hann to 
each other. 

After a while Bond whispered into her hair, 'Ruby!' 
'Almmm.' 

'About your name. About the Windsors. I'm afraid there's ■ 
not much hope.' 

'Oh, well, I never really believed,. You know these old 
family stories.' 

'Anyway, I haven't got enough books here. When I get 
back I'll dig into it properly. Promise. It'U be a question of 
starting with your family and going back - church and town 
records and so forth. I'll have it done properly and send it to 
you. Great slab of parchment wiiih a lot of snazzy print 
Heavy black italics with coloured letters to start each line. 
Although it mayn't get you anywhere, it might be nice to 
have.' 

'You mean like old documents in museums?' 
'Thafs right' 

127 . 



'That'd be nice.' 

There was silence in the little ropm. Her breathing became 
regular. Bond thought: how extraordinary! Here on top of 
this mountain, a death's run aw^y .from the nearest hamlet 
in the valley, in this little room w«fe peace?, silence, warmth, 
happiness - many of the ihg?rediehls of love; It was like 
making love in a balloon. Which nineteenth-rcehtury rake had 
it been who had recorded a bet in a London club that he 
would make Ipve to a woman in i balloon? 

Bond was on the edge of sleep, IJe let himself slide down 
lie soft, easy slope. Here it was wbtiderftil. It would be just 
as easy for him to get back to his room in the early hours. 
He softly eased his right arm from under the sleeping girl, 
took a lazy glance at his left wrist. The big luminous numerals 
said midtight. 

Bond hild hardly turned over onl his right side, up against 
the soft flanks of the sleepiog girl, when, from underneath 
the pillow, under the floor, deep in the bowels of the. building, 
there canie the peremptory ringing of a deep-toned, melo- 
dious electric bell. The girl stirred^ She said sleepily, 'Ohj 
damn!' ; 

'What is it?' ' 

'Oh, it's only the treatment. I. suppose it's midnight?' ' 
'Yes.'' 

'Don't pay any attention. It's only for me. Just go to 
sleep.' 

Bond kissed her betweai the shoulder-blades but said 
nothing. '„ 

Now the bell had stopped. In its place ihere started up a 
droning whine, rather like the noise of k very fast electric 
fan, with, behind it, the steady, unvarying tick-pause-tock, 
tick-pause-tock of some Mnd of metronome. The combina-' 
tion of the two sounds was. wonderfully; soothing. It com- 
pelled attentidnj but only just on the fdnge of consciousness - 
like tibe nightTUoises of childhood, the slow tick _ of the 
nursery clock combined with the sbimd of the sea or the 
wind outside. And now a voice, the Count's voice came over, 
the distant wire or tape that Bond assumed was the mechani-^ 



cal source of all this. The voice was pitched in a low, sing- 
song murmuTj caressing yet authoritative, and every word 
was distinct. 'You are going to sleep.' The voice fell on the 
word 'sleep'. 'You are tired and your limbs feel Uke lead.' 
Again the falling cadence on the last word. 'Your arms feel 
as heavy as lead. Your breathing is quite even. Your breathing 
is as regular as a child's. Your eyes are closed and the eyelids 
are heavy as lead. You are becoming tireder and tireder. 
Your whole body is becoming tired and heavy as lead. You 
are warm and conafortable. You are slipping, slipping, slip- 
ping down into sleep. Your bed is as soft and downy as a 
nest. You are as soft and sleepy as a chicken in a nest. A dear 
little chicken^ fluffy and Cuddly.' There came the sound of a 
sweet cooing and ducidng, the gentle brushing together of 
wings, the dozy murmuring of mother hens with their chicks. 
It went on for perhaps a full minute. Then the voice came 
back. 'The little darlings are going to sleep. They are like 
you, comfortable and sleepy in their nests. You love them 
dearly, dearly, dearly. You love all chickens. You would 
like to make pets of tihem all. You would like them to grow up 
beautiful and strong. You would like no harm to come to 
them. Soon you will be going back to your darling chickens. 
Soon you viSl be able to look after liem again. Soon you 
will be able to help aU the chickens of England. You will be 
able to improve the breed of chickens all over England. 
This will make you very, very happy. You will be doing so 
much good that it will make you very, very happy. But you 
will keep quiet about it. You will say nothing of your methods. 
They will be your own secret, your very own secret. People 
will try and find out your secret But you will say nothing 
because they might try and take your secret away from you. 
And then you would not be able to make your darling, 
chickens happy and healthy and strong. Thousands, millions 
of chickens made happier because of you. So you will say 
nothing and keep your secret. You will say nothing, nothing 
at all. You will remember what I say. You will remember 
what I say.' The murmuring voice was getting farther and 
farther away. The sweet cooing and clucking of chickens 

129 

- J 



softly obscured the vanishing voice, then that too died aWay 
and there was only the electric whine and the tick-pause-tock > 
of the metronome. 

Ruby was deeply asleep. Bond reached out for her wrist 
and 'felt the pulse. It was plumb on beat with the metro- ; 
nome. And now that, and the whine of the iiiachine, receded 
softly until all was dead sileace ag^ save, for the soft moan 
of the night wind outside. 

Bond let out a deep sigji. So. now he had heard it all! He 
suddeiily wSnted :to get back to his rpoin and think. He 
slipped out from under the sheets got to his dothes, and put 
them on. He manipulated the lock without trouble. There 
was no movement, no sound, in the passage. He slipped 
back into Number Two and eased the door shut. Then he 
went into his bathroom, dosed thedoor, switched on thelight^ 
and sat down oH the lavatory and put his head in his hands. 

Deep hypnosis 1 That was what he had heard. The Hidden 
Persuader! The repetitive, singsong message injected into the 
brain whUe it was oii thetwilight.edgeof consciousness. Now, 
in Ruby's subconscious, the niess^e would work on all by 
itself through the night, leavingherj after weeks of repetition, 
with an in-built mechanism bf obedience to the voice that 
would be as deep, as cbmpelliiig, as hunger. : 

But what in hell was the inessage all about? Surely it was a 
most harmless, eyen a praiseworthy message to instil in the 
simplemind of this country ^1. She had been cured of her 
allergy and she would return home fully capable of helping 
with the family poultry business - more than that, en- 
thusiastic, de<^icated. Had the leopard changed his spots? 
Had the old lag become, in the corny, hackneyed tf aditibn, a 
do-gooder? Bond simply couldn't believe it. What about sill 
ithose high-powered security arrangements? What about the 
' njulti-racid steff thatpositivdy stank of sp e ctre? And wtat 
about the bob-run tnurder? Acddcait? ' So soon after ^^^^^t^^ 
man's attempted rape of this Salah girl? An impossible 
coincidence! Malignity , must Somewhere lie behind the 
benign, dinical front of this maddeningly innocent ifesearch 
outfit! But where? How inheU could he fuid put?.'-... 



, Bondj exhausted, got up and turned off the light in tie 
bathroom tod quietly got himself into bed. The inind 
whirred on for a. sterile half-hour in the over-heated brain 
and then, merdftilly, he went to sleep. 

Wheaa," at nine o'ddckj he . awoke and threw open his 
windows, the sly was\oVercast with the heiyy blank grey 
that meant snow. Over by the Berghaus, the Schneefifakenj 
and SchneevSgel, the snow-finches and Alpine choughs, that 
hved on the crumbs and left-overs of the picnickers, were 
fluttering and swopping close round the building - a sure 
storin-Warning. The wind had got up and was blowing in 
sharp, threatening gusts^ and no whine of iaachinery; came 
&om the cable railway. The light aluminium gondolas would 
have too bad a; time in winds of this strength, particularly 
over the last g^eat swoop of cable that brought i£em a good 
quarter of a inile over the e^psed shoulder beneath the 
plateau. . — i 

Bond shut the windows and rang for his breaiifast. When 
it came there was a note ftom Fraidem Bunt , pii the tray. 
'The Count will be pleased to receive you at eleven o'clock. 
I.B.' ' 

Bond ate his breakfast and got down to his third page of 
de Bleuvilles, He had quite a chunk of work to show up, 
but this was easy stuff. The prpspect of successfully bam- 
boozlinghis way along the Blofeld part of the trail \vas not so 
encouraging. He would start boldly at the Gdynia end and 
work back - get the old rascal to talk about his youth and his 
parents. Old rascal? Well, dammit, whatever he had become 
since Operation 'Thunderball', there weren't two Ernst. 
Stavro Blofelds in the world! 

They met in the Coimt's study. 'Good morning. Sir 
Hilary. I hope you slepf well? We are going to have snowl' 
The Count waved towards the window. 'It will ht a goqd 
day for work. lv[o distractions.' 

Bond smiled a man-to-man smile. 'I certaihljr find those 
girls pretty . distracting. But most charming. Whatfs the; 



matter with them, by the way? They all look healthy enough.' 

The Count was off-hand. 'They suffer from allergies. Sir 
Hilary. Cripplmg allergies. In the agricultural field. They 
are country girls and their disabiUties affect the possibility 
of their employment. I have devised a cure for such symp- 
toms. I am glad to say that the signs are propitious. We are 
making much progress together.' The telephone by his side 
buzzed. 'Excuse me.' The Count picked up the receiver and" 
listened. Machen Sie die Verbindung.* He paused. 
Bond politely studied the papers he had brought along. 
'Zdies de Bleuville ... Da ... Da .. . Kharascho!' He put 
the receiver back. 'Forgive me. That was one of my research 
workers. He has been purchasing some materials for the 
laboratories. The cable railway is closed^ but they are making 
a special trip up for him. Brave man. He will probably be 
very sick, poor fellow.' The green contact lenses hid any 
sympathy he may have fdt. The fixed smUe showed none. 
'And now, my dear Sir Hilaryj let us get on with our work.' 

Bond laid out his big sheets on the desk and proudly ran 
his finger down through the generations. There was excite- 
ment and satisfaction in the Count's cortraients and ques- 
tions. 'But this is tremendous, really tremendous, my dear 
fellow. And you say there is mention of a broken spear or a 
broken sword in the arms? Now when was that granted?' 

Bond rattled off a lot of stuff about the Norman Conquest. 
The broken sword had probably been awarded as a result of 
some battle. More research in London would be needed to 
pin the occasion down. Finally Bond rolled up the sheets and 
got out his notebook. 'And now we must start working back 
firom the other end. Count' Bond became inquisitorial, 
authoritative. 'We have your birth date in Gdynia, May 28th, 
1908. Yes?' 

'Correct.' 

'Your parents* names?' 

'Ernst George Blofdd and Maria Stavro IVlichelopoulos.' 
'Also born in Gdynia?' • 
'Yes.' ■ 
'Now your grandparents?' 

132 



'Ernst Stefan Blofeld and Elizabeth Lubomirskajra.' 
'Hm, so the Ernst is something of a family Christian 
name?' ' 
'It would seeni so. My great-grandfather, he was also 

Ernst.' 

'That is most important. You see. Count, among the 
Blofelds of Augsburg there are no less than two Ernsts!' 

The Count's hands had been lying on the green blotting^ 
pad on his desk, relaxed. Now, impulsively, they joined 
together and briefly writhed, showing white knuckles. 

My God, you've got it bad ! thought Bond. 

'And that is important?' 

'Very. Christian names run through families. We regard 
them as most significant dues. Now, can you remember any 

farther back? You have done well. We have covered three 
generations; With the dates I shall later ask you for, we have 
already got back to around 1850. Only another fifty years to 
go and we shall have arrived at Augsburg.' 

'No.* It was almost a cry of pain. 'My great-great-grand- 
father. Of him I know nothing.' The hands writhed on the 
blotting-paper. 'Perhaps, perhaps. If it is a question of 
money. People, witnes'ses coiild be found.' The hands parted, 
held themselves out expansively. 'My dear Sir Hilary, you 
and I are men of the world. We miderstand each other. 
Extracts frorii archives, registry ofSces, the chxirches - these 
things, do they have to be completely authentic?' 

Got you, you old fox! Bond said affably, with a hint of 
coiKpiracy, 'I don't quite understand what you mean. Count.' 

The hands were now flat on the desk again, happy hands. 
Blofeld had recognized one of his kind. 'You are a hard- 
working man. Sir Hilary. You live modestly in this remote 
region of Scotland. Life could perhaps be made easier for 
you. There are perhaps material benefits you desire - motor- 
cars, a yacht, a pension. You have only to say the word, name 
a figure.' The dark-green orbs bored into Bond's modestly 
evasive eyes, holding them. 'Just a little co-operation. A 
visit here and there in Poland and Germany and France. Of 
course your expenses would be lieavy. Let us say five 

133 



hundred, pounds a week. The technical matters, the docu- 
mentSj and so , forth. Those I can arrange. It would only 
tequire your supporting evidence. Yes? The Ministry of 
Justice in Parisj for them the word of the College oiF Arms 
is the word of God. Is that not so?' 

It was too good to be true! But how to play it? Diffidently^ 
Bond saidj 'What you are suggesting. Count, is -r- er - not 
■vnthout interest. Of course' - Bond's smile was stfficiently 
expansive sufficiently bland - *if the ^docupients were coh- 
vindng, so to speak soUd, very soHd, then it would be quite 
reasonable for me to autiienticate them.' Bond put spaniel 
into his eyes,; asking to be patted, to be told that CToythihg 
would be ail right, that he would be completely protected. 
'You see what I mean?' 

The Count began, with force, sincerity, 'You need have 
absolutely no . . .' when there was the noise of an approach- 
mg hubbub down the passage. The door burst open. A raan, 
propelled fcbm behind, lurched into the: room and fell,' 
writhing, to the floor. ' i : 

Two of iiie guards came stiffly to attention behind him. 
They looked first at the GpUnt and then, sideways, towards 
Bond, surprised to see him there. < ■ 

The Count said shiarply, 'Was ist denn los?' 
' Bond knew the answer arid, rhbmehtarily, he died. Behind 
the snow and the blood on the face of the man on the floor. 
Bond recognized the face of a man he knew. 

Thie: bloEid hair, the nose broken boxing for the Navy, 
hdbriged to a firiend ofhis in* the Service. It was, uiiniiistak- 
ablyi Number 2firoDi Station Z ill Zurich! 



15 



The Heat Increases 

YeSj it was Shaun Campbell all rightl Christ Almighly,' 
what a mess! Station Z had especially' been told nothing 
about Bond's mission. Campbell must have been following a 
lead of his own, probably trailing this Russian who had been 
'buying suppUes'. Typical of the sort of balls-up that over- 
security can produce! ' 

The leading guard Was talking in rapid, faulty German 
with a Slav accent. 'He was found in the open sM compart- 
ment at the bade of the gondola. iVIuch frozen, but he put up 
a strong resistance. He had to be subdued. He was no doubt 
following Captain Boris.' The man caught himself up. 'I 
mean, your guest from the valley, Herr Graf. He says he is 
an English tourist from Zilrich. That he had got no nloney 
for the fare. He wanted to pay a visit up here. He was 
searched. He carried five hundred Swiss francs. No identity 
papers.' The man shrugged. 'He says his name is Campbell.' 

At the sound of his nkme^ the man on the ground sticred. 
He lifted his head and looked wildly round the roomiv. He 
had been badly battered about the face and head with a pistol 
or a cosh. His conttbl was shot to pieces. When his eyes lit 
on the fattiiUar face of Bond, he looked astonished, then, as ; 
if a lifebuoy had been thrown, to . him, ie said hoarsely, 
'Thank God, James. Tell 'em it*s n^e! Tell 'ein I'm from 
Universal Export. In Ziirich. You know! For God's sake, 
Jaines! Tell 'em I'm O.K.' His head fell forward on the 
carpet. 

The Count's head slowly ttimed towards Botid. The 
opaque green eyes caught the pale light from the;window and 
glinted whitely. The tight, face-lifted smile was; grotesqiieiy 
horrible. 'You know this ma%; Sir Hilary?' ' 

BoM shook his head sorrowftilly,: He knew he was pro- 
nouncing the death sentei;ice:on .GampbelL 'Never seen him 

!. ■ . V- 135' '" ■ 



before in my life. Poor chap. He sounds a bit daft to me. 
Concussed, probably. Why not ship him down to a hospital 
in the vaUey? He looks in a pretty bad way.' 

'And Universal Export?' The voice was silky. 'I seem to 
have heard that name before.' 

'Well, / haven't,' said Bond indifferently. 'Never heard of 
it,' He reached in his pocket for his cigarettes, lit one with a 
dead steady hand. 

The Count turned back to the guards. He said softly, 
'Zur Befragungszelle.' He nodded his dismissal. The two 
guards bent down and hauled Campbell up by his armpits. 
The hanging head raised itself, gave one last terrible look of 
appeal at Bond. Then the man who was Bond's colleague was 
hustled out of the room and the door was closed softly behind 
his draggiug feet. 

To the interrogation cell! That could mean only one 
thing, under modem methods, total confession! How long 
would Campbell hold out for? How many hours had Bond 
got left? 

'I have told them to take him to the sick-room. He will be 
well looked after.' The Count looked from the papers on his 
desk to Bond. 'I am afraid this unhappy intrusion has inter- 
fered with my train of thought. Sir Hilary. So perhaps you 
will forgive me for this morning?' 

'Of course, of course. And, regarding your proposition, 
that we should work a little more closely together on your 
interests, I can assure you, Count, that I find it most in- 
teresting.' Bond smiled conspiratorially. 'I'm sure we could 
come to some satisfactory arrangement.' 

'Yes? That is good.' The Count linked his hands behind 
his head and gazed for a moment at the ceiling and then, 
reflectively, back at Bond. He said casually, 'I suppose you 
would not be connected in any way with the British Secret 
Service, Sir Hilary? ' 

Bond laughed out loud. The laugh was a reflex, forced out 
of him by tension. ' Good God, no I Didn't even know we had 
one. Didn't all that sort of thing go out with the end of the 
war?' Bond chuckled to himself, fatuously amused. 'Can't 

136 



quite see myself running about behind a false moustache. 
, Not my line of country at all. Can't bear moustaches.' 

The Count's unwavering smile did not seem to share 
Bond's amusement. He said coldly, ' Then please forget my 
question^ Sir Hilary. The intrusion by this man has made me 
over-suspicious. I value my privacy up. here. Sir Hilary. 
Scientific research can only be pircsued in an atmosphere of 
peace.'''. 

'I couldn't agree ifiiore: ' Bond was efiusive. He got to his 

feet and gathered up his papers from the desk. 'And now I 
must get on with my own research work. Just getting into 
the fourteenth century. I think I shall haye some interesting 
data to show you tomorrowj Count,' ,', ;- ■. 

The Count got politely to his feet and Bond went put of 
: the , door and along the passage. : 

He loitered, listening for any sound. There Was none, but 
half-way down the corridor one of the doors, was ajar. A 
crack of tslood-red Ught showed. Bond thought, I've probably 
had it anyway. In for a penny, in for a pound! He pushed 
the door open and stuck his head into the room. It was a long, 
low laboratory with a plastic- covered work-bench extending 
its whole length beneath the windows, which were shuttfered. 
Dark ttd light, as in a film-developing chamber, came fiom 
neon, strips above the. cornige. 'The ;bendi was littered With 
retorts and test-tubes, and there were line upon line of test- 
tubes ai^d phials containing a cloudy liquid iu racks agaiast 
the far wall. Three men in white, with' gauze pads over the 
bottoms of their feces and. white; stnrgical caps over their hair, " 
were at work, absorbed. Bond took in the scene, a scene fiom 
a theatrical hell, withdrew his head, and walked on down , 
the corridor and out into what was now a driving, snow- 
storm; He pulled the top of his swieater ovej? his head ahd 
forced Ijis way along the path to the blessed warnith of the 
club-house. Then he walked quickly to his room, closed the 
door, and went into the bathroom and sat down on his usual 
throne of reflection and wondered what in God's natne to dp. 

Could he have saved Campbell? Well, he could have had a 
desperate shot at it. 'Oh^ yes. I know this man. Perfectly 
' ■ : ■ 137 



respectable chap. We used to work for the same export fimij 
Universal, in London. You look in pretty bad shape, old boy. 
What the devil happened?' But it vyas just as well he hadn't 
tried. As cover, solid cover. Universal was 'bruld' with the 
pros. It had been in use too long. All the secret services in 
the world had penetrated it by now. Obviously Blofeld knew 
all about it. Any effort to save Campbell would simply have 
tied Bond in with him. There had been no alternative except 
to throw him to the wolves. If Campbell had a chance to get 
his wits back before they really started on him, he would 
know that Bond was there for some purpose, that his dis- 
avowal by Bond was desperately important to Bond, to tlae 
Service. How long would he have the strength to cover for 
Bond, retrieve his recognition of Bond? At most a few hours. 
But how many hours? That was the vital question. That and 
how long the storm would last. Bond couldn't possibly get 
away in this stuflF. If it stopped, there might be a chance, a 
damned slim one, but better than the alternatives, of which, 
if and when Campbell talked, there was only one - death, 
probably a screaming death. 

Bond surveyed his weapons. They were only his hands and 
feet, his Gillette razor and his wrist-watch, a heavy Rolex 
Oyster Perpetual on an expanding metal bracelet. Used 
properly, these could be turned into most effective knuckle- 
dusters. Bond got up, took the blade out of his Gillette and 
dropped the razor into his trouser pocket. He shpped the 
shaft between the first and second fingers of his left hand 
so that the blade-carrier rested flat along his knuckles. Yes, 
that was the way! Now was there anything, any evidence he 
should try and take with him? Yes, he must try and get more, 
if not all, of the girls' names and, if possible, addresses. For 
some reason he knew they were vital. For that he would 
have to use Ruby. His head full of plans for getting the 
information out of her, Bond went out of the bathroom and 
sat down at his desk and got on with a fresh page of de 
Bleuvilles. At least he must continue to show willing, if only 
to the recording eye in the ceiling. 

* * * ■ 
.138 



It was about twelve-thirty when Bond, heard his door- 
knob being softly turned. Ruby slipped in andj her finger 
to her lips, disappeared into his bathroom. Bond casually 
threw down his pen, got up and stretched and strolled over 
and went in after her. 

Ruby's blue eyes were wide and frightened. 'You're in 
trouble/ she whispered urgently. 'What heme you been 
doing?' 

'Nothing/ said Bond innocently. 'What's up?' 

'We've all been told that we mustn't talk to you xmless 
Miss Bunt is there.' Her knuckles went distractedly up to 
her teeth. 'Do you think they know about us}' 

'Couldn't possibly/ said Bond, radiating confidence. 'I 
think I know what it is.' (With so much obfiascation in the 
air^ what did an extra, a reassuring, Ue matter?) 'This 
morning the Ctount told me I was an upsetting influence here, 
that I was what he called "disruptive", interfering with your 
treatments. He asked me to keep myself more to myself. 
Honestly' - (how often that word came into a He!) - 'I'm 
sure that's all it is. Rather a pity really. Apart from you - I 
mean you're sort of special - 1 think all you girls are terribly 
sweet. I'd like to have helped you aU.' 

'How do you mean? Helped us?' 

'Well, this business of surnames. I talked to Violet last 
night. She seemed awfully interested. I'm sure it would have 
amused all the others to have theirs done. Everyone's in- 
terested in where they came from. Rather like palmistry in a 
way.' Bond wondered how the College of Arms would have 
liked that one! He shrugged. 'Anyway, I've decided to get 
the hell away from here. I can't bear being shepherded and 
ordered about like this. Who the hell do they think I am? 
But I'll tell you what I'll do. If you can give me the names 
of die girls, as many as you know, I'll do a piece on each of 
them and post them when you all get back to England. How 
much longer have you got, by the way?' 

'We're not told exactly, but the, rumour is about another 
week. There's another batch of girls due about then. When 
we're slow at our work or get behind-hand with our reading, 

139 



Miss Bunt says she hopes the next lot won't be so stupid. 
The old bitch! But Sir Hilary' - the blue eyes fiUed with, 
concern - 'how are you going to get away? You know we're 
practically prisoners up here.' 

Bond was off-hand. 'Oh, I'll manage somehow. They 
tan't hold /«c here against my will. But what about the names. 
Ruby? Don't you think it would give the girls a treat?' 

'Oh, they'd love it. Of course I know all of them. We've 
found iplenty of ways of exchanging, secrete. But you won't 
be able to remember. Have you got anjrtihing to ywite 
down on?' 

Bond tore off some strips of lavatory paper and took out a 
pencil, 'Fire away!' 

She laughed. ' Wdl, you know me and Violet, then there's 
Elizabeth Maddnnon. She's from Aberdeen. Beryl Morgan 
from somewhere in Herefordshire. Peairl Tampion, Devon- 
shire - by the way, all those simply loathed every kind of 
cattle. Now they live on steaks ! Would you beUeve it? I must 
say the Count's a wonderft^ jcnan.' ; 

'Yes, indeed.'. •■„•::■ ^ 

"Vhsa. there's Annie Charter froni Canferbury and Caresse 
Ventnor from the National Stud, wherever that is - fancy 
her working there and she c^ime up in a rash all oyer when- 
ever she went near si horse ! Now all she does is dream of pony 
clubs and read every word she can get hold of about Pat 
Smythel And Denise Robertson . . .' 

The list went on until Bond had got the whole ten. He 
saidi 'What about that PoUy somebody who left in Novem- 
ber?* 

'Polly Tasker. She was from East Angjia. Don't remember 
where, but I can find out the address when I get back to 
England. Sir Hilary' - sheput her ar^aroand his neck- *I On. 
going to see you again, aren't I?' ' 

Bond held hec tight aid kissed her 'Of coursej Ruby, 
You can always get me at the College of Arms in Queen 
Victoria Street. Just send me a postcard when you get back. 
But for God's sake cut out tlie " Sir ": You're my girl friend. 
Remember?' ; 

. !' 140 ' 



'Ohj yes, I will - er - Hilary/ she said fervently. 'And ! 
you will be careful, getting away I mean. You're sure ii^s all 
right? Is there anything I can do to help?' 

'No, darling. Just don't breathe a word of all this. It's 
a secret between us. Right?' 

'Of course, darling.' She glanced at her watch, 'Oh lord! 
I must simply fly. Only ten minutes to lunch-time. Npw, can 
you do your tridk with the door? There shouldn't be anyone 
about. If s their lunch-time from twelve till one.' 

Bond, out of any possible line of vision from the eye in 
the ceiling, did his trick with the door and she was gone with 
a last whispered goodbye. • ■ 

Bond eased the. door shut. let out a deep si^ and went 
over to the window and peered out through the show-heaped 
panes. It Was thick as Hades outside and the fine powder 
snow on the veranda was whirling up in Uttle ghosts as the 
wind tore at the building. Pray God it would let up by night- 
tune! Now, what did he need in the way of equipment? 
Goggles and gloves were two items he might harvest over 
Ixmch. Bond went into the bathroom again and rubbed soap 
into his eyes. It stung like hell, but the blue-grey eyes 
emerged from the treatmeint realistically bloodsihot; Satisfied, 
Bond rang for the 'warden' and went thoughtftilly off to the 
restaurant. ■ 

Silence feU as he went through the swing doors, followed 
by a polite, brittle chatter. Eyes followed him disdreetly as 
he crossed the rooni and the replies to his good-mornings 
were muted. Bond took his usual seat between Ruby and 
Fraulein Bunt. Apparently obhvious to her frosty greeting, 
he snapped his fingers for a waiter and ordered liis double 
vodka dry Martini. He turned to FrSuIein Bunt and smiled 
into the susfiicious yellow e^es- 'Woidd you be very kind?' 

'Yes, Sah Hilary. What is it?' 

Bond gestured at his still watering eyes. 'I've got the 
Count's trouble.. Sort of conjunctivitis, I suppose. The 
tremendous glare up here. Better today of course, but there's 
still a lot Of reflection from the snow. And all this paperr 
work. Could you get ine a pair of snow-g6ggI&? pfi, only 
■ 141 : '. : .;■ .„ 



need to borrow them for a day or two. Just till my eyes get 
used to the light. Don't usually have this sort of trouble.' 

'Yes. That can be done. I will see that they are put in 
your room.' She summoned the head waiter and gave liim 
the order in German. The man, looking at Bond with overt 
dislike, said, 'Sofoit, gnadiges Fraulein,' and clicked his 
heels. 

'And one more thing, if you will,' said Bond pohtely. 'A 
small flask of schnapps.' He turned to Frauleia Bunt. 'I find 
I am not sleeping well up here. Perhaps a nightcap would 
help. I always have one at home - generally whisky. But 
here I would prefer schnapps. When in Gloria, do as the 
Glorians do. Ha ha!' 

Fraulein Bimt looked at him stonily. She said to the waiter 
curtly, 'In Ordnung!' The man took Bond's order of Pat6 
Maison followed by CEufs Gloria and the cheese tray (Bond 
thought he had better get some stuffing into him!), cUcked 
his heels and went away. Was he one of those who had been 
at work in the interrogation room? Bond silently ground his 
teeth. By God, if it came to hitting any of these guards 
tonight, he was going to hit them damned hard, with every- 
thing he'd got! He felt Fraulein Bunt's eyes inquisitively on 
him. He untensed himself and began to make amiable con- 
versation about the storm. How long would it last? What was 
the barometer doing? 

Violet, guardedly but helpfully, said the guides thought 
it would clear up draing the afternoon. The barometer was 
rising. She looked nervously at Fraulein Bunt to see if she 
had said too much to the pariah, and then, not reassured, 
went back to her two vast baked potatoes with poached eggs 
in them. 

Bond's drink came. He swallowed it in two gulps and 
ordered another. He felt like making any gesture that would 
startle and outrage. He said, cbmbalively, to Fraulein Bunt, 
'And how is that poor chap who came up in the cable car 
this morning? He looked in terrible shape. I do hope he's up 
and about again.' 

'He makes progress.' 

142 



' Oil ! \?Tio was liaf? ' asked; R^^ 

*It was an intruder.' Fraulein Bunt's eyes ivere hard Mlii 
warning. 'Itis not a subject for conversation.' 

' Oh, but why not? t asked, Bond inndcently.^ '^ 
9an't get much excitement up here. Anyjiing' out of the 
ordinary should be a bit of a relief,' 

She said nothing. Bond raised his eyebrows politely and 
then acceptedl the spub with a good grace. He asked if any 
newspapers caine Up- Or was there a radio bulletin like on 
board ship? Did they fet any news ftom the outside world? 

'No/,:'. .:v\ ■■■••r.r : ' V.. ; 

Bond' gave up the struggle and got on with his lunch. 
Ruby's foot crept' up against his in sympathy with the man 
,sent to Coventry. Bond gave it El vgentle Mck of warning 
and withdrew his. The girls at the other tables began to 
leave. Bond toyed, with his cheese and coffee until, Fraulein 
Bunt got to her feet and saidj 'Come, girls.' Bond rose and 
Sat down again. Now, except for the waiters clearing up^ 
he was aldhe in the restaurant. That was what he wanted. 
He got up and strolled to the door. Outside, on pegs against 
the wallj the girls' outdoor coats and sMing gloves hung in 
an orderly row. The corridor was empty. Bond swept the 
largest pair of leather gauntlets he could see off the: peg 
where they hung by their joining cojd and stuffed them 
inside his sweater. Then he sauntered along to the reception 
room. It was empty. The doot to the ski-room was open 
and the surly man was at his work-bench, Bond went in 
and made one-sided conversation about the weather. Then; - 
i Ui^der cover I of desultory t^ about whether the ineM skis 
were not more dangerous than the old wooden ones, he 
wandered^ his hands innocently in his pockets, round the 
numbered racks in which the skis stood against the wall. 
They werp mostly the girls' skis'. No good! The bindiaga 
would be too sniall for his bpotsi But, by the door, in un- 
numbered slots, stood the guides' skis. Bond's eyes narrowed 
to sUts as he scanned them, measuring, estimating. Yes, the 
pair of metal Heads with the fed V's, painted , on the blaqk 
curved tips was the best bet. They were of the stiffer, 

143 • , . 



Master's, category, designed for radng. Bond remembered 
reading somewhere tliat the Standard model was inclined to 
'float' at speed. His choice had the Attenhofer Flex forward 
release with the Marker lateral release. Two transverse 
leather thongs wound round the ankle and buckled over the 
instep wouldj if he fell, which he was certain to do, ensure 
against losing a ski. 

Bond made a quick guess at how much the bindings would 
need adjustment to fit his boots and went off down the 
corridor to his room. 



144 



16 



Downhill Only 

Now IT was just a question of sitting out the hours. When 
would they have finished with Campbell? Quick, rough 
torture is rarely effective against a professional, apart from 
the likelihood of the man rapidly losing consciousness, 
becoming so punch-drunk that he is incoherent. The pro, 
if he is a tough man spiritually, can keep the. 'game' alive for 
hours by minor admissions, by telling long, rambling tales 
and sticking to them. Such tales need verification. Blofeld 
would undoubtedly have his man in Ziirich, would be able 
to contact him on his radio, get him to check this or that date 
or address, but that also would require time. Then, if it was 
proved that Campbell had told lies, they would have to begin 
, again. So far as Bond and his identity were concerned, it all 
depended on Campbell's reading of why Bond was up at 
the Gloria Club. He must guess, because of Bond's curt 
disavowal of him, that it was something clandestine, some- 
thing important. Would he have the wits to cover up Bond, 
the guts, against the electrical and mechanical devices they 
would surely use against him? He could say that, when he 
came to and saw Bond, in his semi-consdous state he had 
for a moment thought Bond was his brother, James CainpbeU. 
Some story like that. If he had the wits ! If he had the guts ! 
Had Campbell got a death pill, perhaps one of the buttons 
on his ski-jacket or trousers? Bond sharply put the thought 
away. He had been on the edge of wishing that Campbell 
had! 

WeU, he would be wise to assume that it was only a matter 
of hours and then they would come for him. They wouldn't 
do it until after lights-out. To do it before would cause 
too much talk among the girls. No, they would fetch him at 
night and the next day it would be put about that he had left 
by the first cable car down to the valley. Meanwhile he would 

145 



be buried deep ia a snow overcoat, or more likely deposited 
in a high aevasse in the near-by Piz Languard glacier, to 
come out at the bottom, fifty years later, out of his deep 
freeze, with multiple contusions but no identification marks - 
a nameless victim of *les neiges etemeUes' I 

Yes, he must plan for that Bond gbt up from the desk 
where he had been automatically scribbling down Hsts of 
fifteenth-century de Bleuvilles and opened the window. The 
snow had stopped and there was broken blue in the sky. It 
would be peifect powder snow, perhaps a foot of it, jan the 
Gloria Run. Now to make everydiing t eady ! 

There are hundreds of secret inks, but there was only one 
available to Bond, the oldest one in the world, his own urine. 
He went into the bathroom (what must the televising eye 
think of his digestive tracts?) with his pen, a dean nib, and 
his passport TTien he sat down and procee»ied to transcribe, 
from the flimsy pieces of paper in his pocket on to a blank 
page of his passport, the names and approximate locations by 
county of the girls. The page showed nothing. Held in front 
of a flame, the writing would come up brown. He gUpped the 
passport into his hip-pocket. Next he took the gloves from 
under his sweater, tried them on, and found them an adequate 
but tight fit, took the. top off the lavatory cistern and laid the 
gloves along the arm of the stop-cock. 

What else? It was going to be fiendfahly cold at the start, 
but his body would soon be drenched in sweat. He would 
just have to make do with the ski-clothes he possessed, the 
gloves, the goggles that had been placed on his table, and the 
fiat glass fiask of schnapps that he would carry in one of his 
side pockets and not, in case of a fall, in his hip-pocket. , 
Extra covering for his face? Bond thought of using one of his 
warm vests and cutting eye-holes in it. But it would surely 
slip and perhaps blind him. He had some dark-red siBc 
bandana handkerchief. He would tie one tight over his face 
below the goggles and discard it if it interfered with his 
breathing. So! That was the lotl There was nothing else he 
could do or insure against-.The rest was up to the Fates. 
Bond relaxed his thoughts aiid weat oiit and back to his 



desk. He sat down and bent to his paper-work and tried not to 
listen to the hastening tick of the Rolex on his wrist, tried to 
fix in his mind the rough geography of the Gloria Run he had 
inadequately learned from the metal map. It was too late 
now to go and have another look at it. He must stay put and 
continue to play the toothless tiger! 

* * * 

Dinner was as ghastly as lunch. Bond concentrated on 

getting plenty of whisky , and food under his belt. He made 
urbane conversation and pretended he didn't notice the chill 
in the air. Then he gave Ruby's foot one warm press under 
the table, excused himself on the grounds of work, and 
strode with dignity out of the room. 

He had changed for dinner and he was relieved to find his 
ski-clothes in the half-tidy heap in which he had left them. 
He went, with utter normalcy, about his work - sharpened 
pendls, laid out his books, bent to the squared paper; . 
' Simon de Bleuville, 1510-1570. Alphonse de Bleuville, 1546- 
1580, married 1571 Mariette d'Escourt, and had issuer Jean, 
Francoise, Pierre'. Thank God he would soon be released 
from all this blether! 

9.15, 9.30, 9.45, 10! Bond felt the excitement ball up inside 
him like caf s fur. He found that his hands were wet. He 
wiped them down the sides of his trousers. He got up and 
stretched. He went into the bathroom and made appropriate 
noises, retrieved the gloves, and laid them on the bathroom 
floor just inside the door. Then, naked, he came back into the 
room and got into bed and switched off the light. He regular- 
ized his breathing and, in ten minutes, began to snore softly. 
He gave it another ten, then slid out of bed and, with infinite 
precaution, dressed himself in his sM clothes. He softly 
retrieved his gloves from the bathroom, put on the goggles 
so that they rested in his hair above the forehead, tied the 
dark-red handkerchief tightly across his nose, schnapps into 
pocket, passport into hip-podcet and, finally, Gillette through 
the fingers of the left hand and the Roles transferred to his 
right, the bracelet clasped in the pahn of his hand and round 

147 



the jBngers so that the face of the watch lay across his middle 
knuckles. 

James Bond paused and ran over his equipment. The sH- 
gloves, their cord drawn through his sweater and down the 
sleeves, hung from his wrists. They would be a hindrance 
until he was outside. Nothing to be done about that. The rest 
was all right. He was set! He bent to the door, manipulated 
the lock with the plastic and, praying that the television eye 
had been closed down and would not see the light shining 
in from the passage, listened briefly and slipped out. 

There was, as usual, light from the reception room to his 
left. Bond crept along, inched round the door jamb. Yes! 
The guard was there, bent over something that looked like a 
time sheet. The neck was offered. Bond dropped the Gillette 
in his pocket and stiffened the fingers of his left hand into the 
old Commando cutting edge. He took the two steps into the 
room and crashed the hand down on the back of the offered 
neck. The man's face hit the table top with a thud, bounced 
up, and half turned towards Bonid. Bond's rigjit flashed out 
and the face of the Rolex disintegrated against the man's 
jaw. The body slid sluggishly off its chair on to the carpet 
and lay still, its legs untidy as if in sleep. The eyes fluttered 
and stared, unseerog, upwards. Bond went round the desk 
and bent down. There was no heartbeat. Bond straightened 
himself. It was the inan he had seen coming back alone from 
the bob-run on his first morning, when Berlil had met with 
his accident. So ! Rough justice ! 

The telephone on the desk buzied like a trapped wasp. 
Bond looked at it. He picked up the refceiver and spoke 
through the handkerchief across his mouth. 'J^^?' 

'AUes in Ordnung?' 

'Also hor zu! Wir komimen fiir den EnglSnder iii zehn 
Minuten. Verstanden?' 

'Is'rechf.' . ^ \ ^' 

'Also, aufpassen. Ja?' 

'ZuBefehl!' " 

At tbe oih&c end the receiver went down. Tbs sweat was 

■ ■ . '148 



beading on Bond's fece. Tbai± God he had answered ! So 
they were coming for him in ten minutes! There was a 
bimch of Iseys on the desk. Bond snatched them up and ran 
to the front door. After three. misfits, he had the right one. 
He tried the door. It was now only hdd by ite„air-pressure 
device. Bond leaped for the sM-room. Unlocked! He went 
in andj by the Hght from the reception room, found his slds. 
There were sticks beside them. CareMly he lifted every- 
thing put of its wooden slot and strode to the main door 
and opened it. He laid the skis and sticks softly down in the 
snoWj turned back to the door, locked it from the outside, 
and threw the keys far away into the snow. 

The three-quarter moon burned down with an almost 
dazzling fire and the snbw crystals scintillated back at it like 
a catpet of diamond dust Now minutes would have to be 
wasted getting the bindings absolutely right. James Bond 
kicked one boot into the groove of the Marker toe-hold and 
Imelt down, feeling for the steel cable that went behind his 
heel. It was too shprt Ck)o%> unhutiiedly, he adjusted the 
regulating screw on the forward ktch and tried again. Tiiis 
time it was all right. He pressed down on the safety latch 
and felt it lock his boot into titie toe-hold. Next, the safety 
thong round the top of his bbqt that would keep the sti 
prisoner if the latdi sprung, whicSEi it would do with a fall. 
His fingers were beginning to freeze. The tip of ttie thong 
reftised to find its buckle! A frill minute wasted! Got it! 
And now the same job on the other ski. At last Bond stood 
up, slipped the gloves over his aching fingers, picked up the 
lance-like stictcs, and pushed himself off along the faint ridge 
that showed the outlines of yesterday's well trodden path. 
It felt £ill right! He pulled the goggles down over his eyes 
and now the vast snowscape was a silvery green as if he was 
s wimmin g under sunny water. The^ sKs hissed srnoothly 
through the powder snow. Bond tried to get up more speed 
down the gentle slope by langlaufing, the sUding, forward 
stride of the first Norwegian skiers. But it didn't work. 
The heels of his boots felt nailed to the skis. He punted 
himself forward as fast as he could wiidi his sticks. God, 

149 " 



what a trail he must be leaving - like a tram-line ! As soon as 
they got the front door open, they would be after him. Their 
fastest guide would certainly catch him easily miless he got a 
good start! Every minute, every second was a bonus. He 
passed between the black outlines of the cable head and the 

. Berghaus. There was the starting point of the Gloria Run, 
the metal notices beside it hatted with snow! Bond didn't 
pause. He Went straight for it and over the edge. 

The first vertical drop had a spine-chilling bhss to it. 
Bond got down into his old Arlberg crouch, his hands 
forward of his boots, and just let himsdf go. His sfcLs were 
an ugly six inches apart. The Kannonen he had watched had 
gone down with their boots locked together, as if on a single 
ski. But this was no time for style, even if he had been 
capable of it! Above all he must stay upright! 

Bond's speed was now frightening. But the deep cushion 
of cold, light powder snow gave him the confidence to try a 
parallel swing. Minimum of shoulder turn needed at tihis 
speed - weight on to the left ski - and he came round and 
hdd it as the right-hand edges of his skis bit against the 

'slope, throwing up -a shower of moon-lit snow crystals. 
Danger was momentarily forgotten in the joy of speed, 
technique, and mastery of the snow. Bond straightened up 
and almost dived into his next turn, this time to the left, 
leaving a broad S on the virgin moimtain behind him. Now 
he could afford to schuss the rest down to the hard left-hand 
turn round the shoulder. He pointed his skis down and felt 
real rapture as, like a black bullet on the giant slope, he 
zoomed down the 45-degree drop. Now for the left-hand 
comer. There was the group of three flags, black, red, and 
yellow, hanging limply, their colours confiised by the moon- 
light! He would have to stop there and take a recce over the 
next lap. There was a slight upward slope short of the big 
turn. Bond took it at speed, felt his skis leave the groimd at 
the crest of it, jabbed into the snow with his left stids as an 
extra lever and threw his skis and his rigiht shoulder and 
hips round to the left. He landed in a spray of snow, at a dead 
halt He was delighted with himself! A Sprung-Christiana 

150 



is a showy and not an easy turn at speed. He wished his old 
teacher, Fuchs, had been there to see that one! 

He was now on the shoulder of the mountaiu. High over- 
head the silver strands of the cable railway plunged down- 
wards in one great swoop towards the distant black line of. 
the treeSj where the moonlight glinted on a spidery pylon. 
Bond remembered that there now followed a series of great 
zigs and zags more or less beneath the cables. With the piste 
unobscured, it would have been easy, but the new snow made 
every descent look desirable. Bond jerked up his goggles to 
see if he could spot a flag. Yes, there was one away down 
to the left. He would do some S turns down the next slope 
and then make for it. 

As he pulled down his goggles and gripped his sticks, two 
things happened. First there came a deep boom from high 
up the mountain, and a speck of flame, ^at wobbled in its 
flight, soared into the sky above him. There was a pause, at 
the top of its parabola, a sharp crackj and a blazing mag- 
nesium flare on a parachute began its wandering descent, 
wiping out the black shadows in the hoUows, turning every- 
thing into a hideous daylight Another and another sprayed 
out across the sky, lighting every cranny over the mountain 
side. 

And, at the same time, the cables high above Bond's head 
began to sing! They were sending the cable car down after 
himl 

Bond cursed into the sodden folds of his silk handkerchief 
and got going. The next thing would be a man after him - 
probably a man with a gun! 

He took the second lap more carefully- than the first, got 
across to the second flag, tiuned at it and made back across 
the plunging slope for the series of linked S's under the 
cables. How fast did titiese bloody gondolas go? Ten, fifteen, 
twenty miles an hour? This was the latest type. It would be 
the fastest. Hadn't he read somewhere that the one between 
Arosa and the Weisshom did 25? Even as he got into his first 
S, the tune of the singing cable above him momentarily 
changed and then went back to its usual whine. That was the 

151 



gondola passing the first pylon ! Bond's knees, the Achilles 
heel of all skiers, were beginning to ache. He cut his S's 
narrower, snaking down faster, but now feeling the rutted 
tracks of the piste under his skis at every turn. Was that a 
flag away over to the left? The magnesium flares were sway- 
ing lower, almost directly over him.. Yes. It looked aE right. 
Two more S turns and he would do a traverse schuss to it! 

Something landed with a tremendous qrack amidst a fpun- 
tain of snow to. his right! Another to his left! They had a 
grenade-thrower up front in tiie cable car! A bracket! Would 
the next one be dead on? Almost before the thought flashed 
through his mind, thare came a tremendous explosion just 
ahead of him and he was hurled forward and sideways in a 
Catherine whed of stipks and skis. 

Bond got gingerly to his feet, gasping and spitting snow. 
One of his bindings had opened. His trembling fiingers 
found the forward latch and banged it tight again. Another 
sharp crack) hut wide by twenty yards. He must get away 
from the line of fire &om the blasted railwayl Feverishly he 
thought^ the left-hand flag! I must do the traverse now. He 
took a vague beanng aaosS the precipitous slope and flung 
himself down it. , 



152 



17 



Bloody Snow 

It was ttickyj undulating ground. The magnesium flares 
had sailed lower and there were ugly patches of black 
shadow, any of which might have been a small ravine. Bond 
had to check at all of them and each time the sharp Christie 
reminded him of his legs and ankles . But he got across with- 
out a fall and pulled up at the flag, panting. He looked back. 
The gondola had stopped. They had telephone communica- 
tion with the top and bottom stations, but why had it stopped? 
As if in answer, blue flames fluttered gaily ftom the forward 
cabin. But Bond heard no bullets. The. gondola would be 
swaying on its cable. But then, high up above him, from 
somewhere near the first flags on the; shoulder, came more 
rapid fire, from two points, and the snow kicked up daintily 
around him. So the guides had finally got after him! His 
faU would have cost Viim minutes. How much lead had he 
got? Certainly less than ten minutes. A bullet whanged into 
one of his skis and sang off down the mountain. Bond took a 
last gulp of breath and got going again, still left-handed, < 
away from the cable railway, towards the next flag, a distant 
dot on the edge of the shadow thrown by the great Matter- 
horn-shaped peak of Piz Gloria, which knifed up into the 
spangled sky in dreadftil majesty. 

It looked as if the nm was going to take him dangerously 
close to the skirts of the peak. Something was nagging at his 
mind, a tiny memory. What was it? It was something im- 
pleasant. Yes, by God! The last flag! It had been black. 
He was on the Black Run, the one closed because of avalanche 
danger! God! Well, he'd had it now. No time to try and get 
back on the Red Rvm. And anyway the Red had a long 
stretch close to the cables. He'd just have to chance it. And 
what a time to chance it, just after a heavy fall of hew snow, 
and with all these detonations to loosen up the stuff! When 

153 



there was danger of an avaknche, guides forbade even 
speech! Well, to hell with it! Bond zobmed on across the 
great unmarked slope, got to the next flag, spotted the next, 
away down the mountain side towards the tree line. Too steep 
, to schuss! He would just have to do it in S's. 

And then the bastards chose, to fire off three more flares 
followed by a stream of miscellaneous rockets that burst 
prettily among the stars. Of course! Bright idea! This was 
for the safee of watchers in the valley who might be inquisitive 
about the mysterious explosions high up the mountain. They 
were having a party up there, celebrating something. What 
fun these rich folk had, to be sure! And then Bond re- 
membered. But of course! It was Christmias Eve! God rest ye 
merry geidemen, let nothing ye dismay! Bond's skis hissed 
an accompaniment as he zigzagged fast down the beautiful 
snow slope. White Christmasl Well, he'd certainly got him- 
self that! 

But then, from high up above, him, he heard that most 
dreaded of all sounds in the high Alps^ that rending, booming 
crack! The Laist Trumpi Avalanche! 

The ground shook violently under bond's skis and the 
swelling rumble came down to him like the noise 6f exfJress 
trains roaring through a hundred tunnels. God Almighty, 
now he really had had it] What was the rule? Point the slds 
straight downhill! Try and race it! Bond pointed his skis 
down towards the tree line, got down in his ugly crouch and 
shot, his skis screaming, into white space. 

Keep forward, you bastard ! Get your hands Way in front 
of you ! The wind of his speed was building up into a gre^t 
wall in front of him, trying to knock him off balance. Behind 
him the giant roar of the mountain seemed to be gaining. 
Other, smallex cracks sounded high up among the crags. 
The whole bloody mountain was on the move! If he beat 
the gigantic mass; of hurtling ' snow to the tree line, what 
comfort would he find there? Certainly no protection until 
he was deep in the wood. The avalanche would snap perhaps 
the first hundred yards of firs down like match-stidks. Bond 
used his brain and veered slightly left-handed. The opening, 

• ■■,154 •' ■,,:■; . " 



the glade cut for the Black E!im, would siirdy be somewhere 
below the last flag he had beea aiming for. If it wasn't, he 
was a dead duck! ■ ' : . 

Now the wild schuss was coming to an end. TJ'he trees 
were rushing towards him. Was there a break in the bloody 
black line of theim? Yes ! But more to the left. Bond veered, 
dropping his speed, gratefully, but with his ears strained to 
gauge the range of the tihunder behind and above him. It 
couldn't be fax from him. Tlie shudder in the ground had 
greatly increased and a lot: of the Stuff would ako find the 
; hole tihrough the trees, fiiianel itself in and pursue him even 
down there! Yes! There was the flag! Bond hurtled into a 
right-hand Cioristie just as, to his left, he heard the first 
trees come crashing down with the noise of a hundred 
rabnster cxaci;ers being pulled - Christmas crackers! Bond' 
flung himself straight down the wide white glade between 
the trees. But he could hear that he was losing! The crashing 
of the trees was coming closer. The first froth of the white 
tide couldn't be far behind his heels ! What did one do when 
the avalanche, hit? There was only one rule. Get your hands 
to your boots tod grip your ankles. Then, if you were buried; 
there was some hope of undoing your skis, beiiig able, per- 
haps, to burrow your way to the surface - if you knew in 
your tomb where the surface lay! If you couldn't go down 
like a ball, you would end up immovable, a buried tangle of 
sticks and skis at all angles. Thank God the opening at the 
end of the glade, lie shimmer of the last, easily sloping fields 
befote the finish, was showing up ! The crackling roar behind 
him was getting louder! How high would the wall of snow 
be? Fifty feet? A hundred? Bond reached the end of the glade 
and hurled himself into a right-hand Christie. It was his last 
hope;, to get below the wide belt of trees and pray that the 
avalanche wouldn't mow down the lot of them. To stay in 
the path of the roaring monster at his heels woidd be suidde! 

The Christie came off, but Bond's right ski snarled a root 
or a sapling and he felt himself ; flying through space. He 
landed with a crash and lay gasping, all the wind knocked 
out of him. Now he was done for! Not even enough strength 

155 . 



to get his hands to his ankles! A tremendous buffet of wind 
hit him and a small snow-storm covered him. The ground 
shook wildly and a deep crashing roar filled his ears. And 
then it had passed him and given way to a slow, heavy 
rumble. Bond brushed the snow out of his eyes and got 
unsteadily to his feet, both skis loose, his goggles gone. Only 
a cricket pitch away, a great torrent of snow, perhaps twenty 
feet high, was majestically pouring out of the wood and down 
into the meadows. Its much higher, tumbling snout, tossing 
huge crags of broken snow around it, was already a hundred 
yards ahead and still going fast. But, where Bond stood, it 
was now silent and peaceful except for the machine-gun- 
fire crackling of the trees as they went down in the wood 
that had finally protected him. The crackling was getting 
nearer! No time to hang about! But Bond took off one 
sodden glove and dug into his trouser pocket. If ever he 
needed a drink it was now! He tilted the httle flask down 
his throat, emptied it, and threw the bottie away. Happy 
Christmas ! he said to himself, and bent to his bindings. 

He got to his feet and, rather light-headed but with the 
wonderful gjow of the Enzian in his stomach, started on the 
last mile of finishing schuss across the meadows to the right, 
away from the still hurding river of snow. Blast! There was 
a fence across the bottom of the meadows ! He would have to 
take the normal outiet for the runs beside the cable station. 
It looked all right. There was no sign of the gondola, but he 
could now hear the song of the cables. Had the downcoming 
car reversed back up to Piz Gloria, assuming him to have 
been killed by the avalanche? There was a large black saloon 
car in the forecourt to the cable station, and lights on in the 
station, but otherwise no sign of life. Well, it was his oply 
way to get oflfthe run and on to the road that was his objec- 
tive. Bond schussed easily downwards, resting his limbs, 
getting his breath back. 

The sharp crack of a heavy-calibre pistol and the phut as 
the bullet hit the snow beside bim piJled him together. He 
jinked sideways and glanced quickly up to the right, where 
the shot had come firom. The gun blazed again. A man on 



sHs was coming fast after him. One of the guides ! Of course! 
He would have taken the Red Run. Had the other followed 
Bond on the Black? Bond hoped so, gave a deep sigh of anger, 
and put on all the speed he could, crouching low and jinldng 
occasionally to spoil the man's aim. The single shots kept on 
coming. It was going to be a narrow shave who got to the 
end of the run first! 

Bond studied the finishing point that was now coming at 
him fast. There was a wide break in the fence to let the skiers 
through, a large parking place in firont of the cable station, 
and then the Idw embankment that protected the mdn line 
of the Rhatische Bahn up to Pontresina and the Bemina Pass. 
On the other side of the rails the railway embankment 
dropped iato the road firom Pontresina to Samaderi, the 
jmiction for St Moritz, perhaps two miles down the valley. 

Another shot kicked up the snow in firont of him. That 
was six that had gone. With any luck the man's pistol was 
empty. But that wouldn't help much. There was no stuffing 
left in Bond for a fight. 

Now a great blaze of light showed coming up the railway 
line, and, before it was hidden by the cable station. Bond 
identified an express and could just hear the thudding of its 
electro-diesels. By God, it would just about be passing the 
cable station as he wanted to get across the track! Could he 
make it - take a run at the low embankment and dear it and 
the lines before the train got there? It was his only hope! 
Bond dug in with his sticks to get on extra speed. Hell!' 
A man had got out of the black car and was crouching, 
aiming at him. Bond jinked and jinked again as fire bloomed 
from the man's hand. But now Bond was on top of him. 
He thrust hard with the rapier point of a ski-stick and felt it 
go through clothing. The man gave a scream and went down. 
The guide, now only yards behind, yeUed something. The 
great yellow eye of the diesd glared down the tracks, and 
Bond caught a sideways glimpse of a huge red snow-fan 
bdow the headlight that was fountaining the new snow to 
right and left of the engine in two white wings. Now! He 
flashed across the parking place, heading strai^t at the 



mound of the embankment and, as he hit, dug both his sticks 
in to get his skis ojBFthe ground, and hurled himself forward 
into the air. There was a brief glinipse of steel rails below, a 
tremendous thudding in his ears, and a ferocious blast, only 
yards away, from the train's siren. Then he crashed on to 
the icy road, tried to stop, faUed, and fetched up in an 
almiglity skid against the hard snow wall on the other side. 
As he did so, there carafe a terrible sciream firom behind him, a 
loud splintering of wood, and tte saeechpf the train's brakes 
being applied. 

At the same time, the spray from the snow-fan, that had 
now reached Bond, turned pink! 

Bond wiped some of it off his face and looked at it. His 
stomach turned. God! The man had tried to follow him, 
had been too late or had missed bis jump, and had been 
caught by the murderous blades of the snow-fan! JVliace- 
meati Bond dug a handful of snow off the bank and wiped 
it over his feice and hair. He rubbed more of it down his 
sweater. He suddenly realized that people were pulling down • 
the windows in the brUliantly-lit train above him. Others 
had got down on the line. Bond pulled himself together and 
punted off down the black ice of the toad. Shouts followed 
him - the angry bawl? of Swiss citizens. Bond edged his skis 
a little against the camber of the road and kept going. Ahead 
of him, down the black gulch of the road, in his mind's eye, 
the huge red propeller whirred, sucking him into its steel 
whirliraol. Bond, close to delirium, 'slithered On towards its 
bloody, beckoning vortex. , 

■ . * ■ ■ .* ■* ■■ 

Bond, a grey-faced, lunging automaton, somehow stayed 
upright pn the two Bodies of treacherous Langlauf down the 
gentle slope to Samaden. Once a passing car, its snow-chains 
clattering, forced him into the bank. He leaned against the 
comforting soft snow for a moment, the breath sobbing in his 
throat Then he drove himself on again. He had got so far, 
done 50 well! Only a few more hundred yards to the lights 
of the darling, straggling little paradise of people and shelter! 
, . 158 



The slender carapanile of the village chxirch was floodlit and 
there was a great warm lake of light on the left of the twink- 
ling group of houses. The strains of a waltz came pyer the 
stillj frozen air. The skating-rink! A Ghiristmas five skaters' 
ball. That was the place for him ! Crowds ! Gaiety ! Confusion ! 
Somewhere to lose himself from the double hunt that would 
now be on - by spectre and the Swiss police, the cops and 
the robbers hand in hand! 

Bond's skis hit a pile of horse's dung from some merry- 
maker's sleigh. He lurched druakenly iato the snow wall of 
the road and righted himself, cursiog feebly. Come on! PuU 
yourself together! Look respectable! Well, you needn't look 
roQ respectable. After all, it's Christmas Eve. Kere were the 
first houses. The noise of accordion miisic,. deiiciotisly nostal- 
gic, came from a Gasthaus with a beautiful iron sign over its 
door. Now ttere was a twisty, uphQl bit - the road to St 
Moritz. Bond shtffled up it, placing his stidbs carejEully. He ' 
ran a hand through his matted hair and pulled the sweat- 
soaked handkerchief down to his neck, tuddng the ends into 
his shirt collar. The music lilted down towards him from the 
great pool of Ught over the skating-rink. Bond pulled himself 
a little more upright. There were a lot of cars drawn up, 
skis stuck in mounds of snow, luges and toboggans, festoons 
of paper streamers, a big notice in three languages across the 
entrance: ' Grand Christmas Eve Ball! Fancy Dress! Entrance 
2 Francs ! Bring all your friends! Hooray r 

Bond dug jni his sticks and beat down to unlat<^r his ski?. 
He fell over sideways. If only he could just lie there, go to 
sleep on the hard, trodden snow that felt like swansdown! 
.He gave a small gtoan ghd hieaved himself gingerly ijnto a 
crouch. Tlie bindings frozen solid, caked, like his boots, 
with ice. He got one of his sticks and hacked feebly at the 
metal and tried again. At last the latches sprang and the 
thopgs wete oflF. Where to put the bloody things, hide their 
brilliant red markings? He lugged them down lie trodden 
path towards the entrance, 'gay -with fairy lights, shoved the 
skis arid the sticks under a big saloon car, and staggered on. , 
The man at the ticket-table was as drunk as Bond seemed. 
A . ■' . ■ 159 



He- looked up blearily: 'Zwo Fraitken. Two francs. Deux 
francs.' The routine incantation was slurred into one port- 
manteau word. Bond held on to the table, put down the 
coins, and got his ticket. The man's eyes focused. 'The fancy 
dress, the travesti, it is obligatoire/ He reached into' a box by 
his side and threw a black and white domino-mask on the 
table. 'One franc' He gave a lop-sided smile. 'Now you are 
the gangster, the spy. Yes?' 

'Yeah, that's right.' Bond paid and put on the mask. 
He- reluctantly let go of the table and wove through tbe 
entrance. There were raised tiers of wooden benches round 
the big square rink. Thank God for a chance to sit down! 
There was an empty seat on the aisle in the bottom row at 
rink level. Bond stumbled down the wooden steps and fell 
into it He righted himself, said 'Sorry,' and put his head in 
his hands. The girl beside him, part of a group of harlequins. 
Wild Westerners, and pirates, drew her spangled skirt away, 
whispered something to her neighbour. Bond didn't care. 
They wotildn't throw him out on a night like this. Through 
the loud-speakers the violins sobbed into 'The Skaters' 
Waltz'. Above them the voice of the MC called, 'Last dance, 
ladies and gentlemen. And then all out on to the rink and 
join hands for the grand finale. Only ten minutes to go to 
midnight! Last dance, ladies and gentlemen. Last dance!' 
There was a rattle of applause. People laughed excitedly. 

God in Heaven! thought Bond feebly. Now this 1 Won't 
anybody leave me alone? He fell asleep. 

Hours. later he felt his shoulder being shaken. 'On to the 
rink, sir. Please. All on to the rink for the grand finale. 
Only a minute to go.' A man in purple and gold umform 
was standing beside him, looking down impatiently. 

' Go away,' said Bond dully. Then some inner voice told 
him not to make a scene, not to be conspicuous. He struggled 
to his feet, made the few steps to the rink, somehow stood 
upright. His head lowered, like a wounded bull, he looked to 
left and right, saw a gap in the hmnan chain round the rinl^, 
and slid gingerly towards it. A hand was held out to him and 
he grasped it tiiankftilly. On the other side someone else 

160 



was trying to get hold of his firee hand. And then there eame 
a diversion. From right aaoss the rink, a girl jn a short black 
skating-skirt topped by a shocking-pink fur-lined parka, sped 
like an arrow across the ice and came to a crash-stop in front 
of Bond. Bond felt the ice partides hit his legs. He looked up. 
It was a face he recognized - those brilliant blue eyes, the 
look of authority now subdued beneath golden sunburn and 
a brilliant smile of excitement. Who in hell? 

The girl slipped in beside him, seized his rigiht hand in 
her left, joined up on her right. 'James' - it was a thrilling 
whisper - ' oh, James. It's me ! Tracy ! What's the matter with 
you? Where have you Come from?' 

'Tracy,' said Bond dully. 'Tracy.: Hold on to me. I'm in 
bad shape. Tell you lata?.' 

Then Auld Lang Syne began- and everyone swung linked 
hands in unison to the music 



161 



18 



Fork Left for Hell ! 

Bond had no idea how he managed to stay upright, but at 
last it was over and everyone cheered and broke up into pairs 
and groups. 

Tracy got her arm under his. Bond pulled himself together. 
He said hoarselyj 'Mix with the crowd, Tracy. Got to get 
away &om here. People after me.* A sudden hope came to 
him. 'Got your car?' 

'YeSj darling. Everything'll be all right. Just hang on to 
me. Are people waiting for you outside?' 

'Gould be. Watch out for a big black Mercedes. There 
may be shooting. Better stay away ftom me. I can make it. 
Where's the car?' 

'Down the road to the right. But don't be silly. Here, 
I've got an idea. You get into this parka.' She ran the zip 
down and stripped it off. 'It'll be a tight fit. Here, put your 
arm into this sleeve.' 

'But you'll get cold.' 

'Do as I tell you. I've got a sweater and plmty on under- 
neath. Now the other arm. That's right.' She pulled up the 
zip. 'Darling James, you look sweet' 

The fur of the parka smelt of Guerlain's 'Ode'. It took 
Bond back to Royale. What a girl! The thought of her, of 
having an ally, of not being on his own, of being away ftom 
that bloody mountain, revived Bond. He held her hand and 
followed her through the crowd that was now streaming 
towards the exit. This was going to be a bad moment! 
Whether or not that cable car had come on down the moun- 
tain, by now Blofeld would have had time to get one down 
full of SPECTRE men. Bond had been seen from the train, 
would be known to have made for Samaden. By now they 
would have covered the railway station. They would expect 
him to try and hide in a crowd. Perhaps the drunken man at 

162 



the entrance had remembered him. If that saloon moved 
off and revealed the red-arrowed skis, it would be a cert. 
Bond let go the girl's hand and slipped the shattered Rolex 
back over the knuddes of his right hand. He had gathered 
enough strengtihi, mostly firom the girl, to have one more bash 
at them! 

She looked at him. 'What are you doing?' 

He took her hand again. 'Nothing.' 

They were getting near the exit. Bond peered through the 
slits in his mask. Yes, by, God! Two of the thugs were 
standing beside the ticket man watching the throng with 
deadly concentration. On the far side of the road stood the 
black Mercedes, petrol vapour curling up from its exhaust. 
No escape. There was only bluff. Bond put his arm round 
Tracy's neck and whispered, 'Kiss me all the way past the 
ticket-table. They're there, but I think we can make it.' 

She flung an arm over his shoulder and drew him to her. 
'How did you know liat that's what I've been waiting for?' 
Her lips crushed down sideways on his and, in a tide of 
laughing, singing people, th^ were through and on the 
street. 

They turned, still linked, down the road. Yes! There was 
the darling little white car! 

And then the horn on the Mercedes began soimding 
urgently. Bond's gait, or perhaps his old-fashioned ski- 
trousers, had given him away to the man in the car! 

'Quick, darling!' said Bond urgently. 

The girl threw herself in under the wheel, pressed the 
starter and the car was moving as Bond scrambled in tlirough 
the opposite door. Bond looked back. Through the rear 
window he could see the two men standing in the road. 
They would not shoot with so many witnesses about. Now 
they ran to the Mercedes. Thank God it was pointing up the 
hiU towards St Moritz! And then Tracy had done a con- 
trolled stdd roimd the S bend in the village and they were 
on the main road that Bond had staggered down half an hour 
before. 

It would be five minutes at least before the Mercedes 
163 



could turn and get after them. The girl was going like hell, 
but there was traflSc on the road - tinlding sleighs full of fur- 
wrapped merrymakers on their way back to Pontresina, an 
occasional car, its snow-cfaams rattling. She drove on her 
brakes and her hom, the same triple wind-horn that sounded 
the high discord Bond lemember^ so weil. Bond said, 
'You're an angel, Tracy. But take it easy. We' don't want to 
end up, in the ditch.' 

The girl glanced sideways at him and laughed with 
pleasure. 'That sounds as if you were feeling better. But I 
caimot see'you. Now you can take off that siQy mask and my 
parka. In a minute the heat will come on and you will be 
roasted. And I would like to see you as I remember you. But 
you are pleased with me?* 

Life was begiiming to come back into Bond. It .was so 
wonderful to be in this little car with this marvellous girl. 
The memory of the dreadfiil mountain, of all that he had 
been through, was receding. Now there was hope again, after 
so much dread and despair. He could feel the tensions 
uncoiling in his stomach. He said, 'I'll tell you if I'm pleased 
when we get to Ziirich, Can you make it? It's a hell of a way 
to spend Christmas.' He wound down the window and threw 
the domino-mask out, stripped off the parka and draped it 
over her shoulders. The big sign for the main road down into 
the yalley came up. He said, 'L^ here, Tracy. Filisur and 
then Coire.' 

She took the turning, in Bond's estimation, dangerously 
fast. She went into a skid that Bond swore was going to be 
uncontrolled. But, even on the black ice of the road, she got 
out of it and motored blithely on. Bond said, 'For God's 
sake, Tracy I How iij hell did you manage that? You haven't 
, even got chains on.' 

She laughed, pleased at the awe in his voice. 'Dunlpp 
Rally studs on all the tyres. They're only supposed to be for 
Rally drivers, but I managed to wangle a set out of them. 
Don't worry. Just sit back and enjoy the drive.' 

There was something entirely new in the girl's voice, a lilt 
and happiness that had certainly not been there at Royale. 
':; : 164 



Bond gave her a garbled version. There was a big gangster 
up the mountain, living under a false name. He was wanted 
by the police in England. Bond was vaguely connected with 
the police, with the Ministry of Defence. (She snorted, 
'Don't try and fool me. I know you're in the Secret Service. 
Papa told me so.' Bond said curtly, 'WeU, Papa's talking 
through his hat' She laughed knowingly.) Anyway, Bond 
continued, he had been sent out to make sure this was the 
man they wanted. He had found out that he was. But the 
man had become suspicious of Bond and Bond had had to 
get out quickly. He gave her a graphic account of the moonUt 
nightmare of the mountain, of the avalanche, of the man who 
had been killed by the train, of how he had got to Samaden, 
dead beat, and had tried to hide in the crowd on the skating- 
rink. 'And then/ he ended lamely, 'you turned up like a 
beautiful angel on skates, and here we are.' 

She thought the story over for a minute. Then she said 
calmly, 'And now, my darling James, just tell me how many 
of them you killed. And tdl me the truth.' 

'Why?' 

'I'm just curious.' 

'You promise to keep this between you and me?' 

She said enigmatically, 'Of course. Everything's between 
you and me from now on.' 

'Well, there was the main guard at the so-called Club. 
That had to be done or I'd be dead myself by now. Then 
I suppose one got caught by the avalanche. Then, at the 
bottom, one of them shot at me and I had to spear him with 
my ski-stick - self-defence. I don't know how badly he's 
hiurt. And then there was the man lolled by the train. He'd 
fired six shots at me. And anyway it was his own fault. 
Lef s say three and a half got themselves killed one way or 
another.* 

'How many are left?* 

'What are you getting at?' 

'I just want to know. Trust me.' 

'Well, I think there were about fifteen up there all told. 
So that leaves eleven and a half - plus the big man.' 

166 



Bond turned and looked at her carefully for the first time. 
Yes, she was somehow a new woman, radiating health and a 
kind of inner glow. The tumbled fair hair glittered with 
vitality and the half-open, beautiful lips seemed always to 
be on the verge of a smile. 

'Satisfied?' J, ' 

'You look absolutely wonderful. But now for God's sake 
teU me how you happened to be at Samaden. It was a bloody 
miracle. It saved my life.' 

'AU right. But then you tell. I've never seen a man look so 
dead on his feet. I couldn't beUeve my eyes. I thought you 
must be plastered.' She gave him a quick glance. 'You still 
look pretty bad. Here' - she leant forward to the dashboard - 
'I'll switch on the blower. Get yon properly warmed up.' 
She paused. 'Well, my bit of the story's quite simple really. 
Papa rang me up one day from Marseilles to find out how 
I was. He asked if I had seen you and seemed very aimoyed 
when he heard I hadn't. He practically ordered me to go and 
find you.' She glanced at, him. 'He's quite taken to you, you 
know. Anyway he said he had found out the address of a 
certain man you were lobking for. He said he was sure that 
by now you would have found out that address too. He said 
that, knowing you, I would find you somewhere close to this 
address! It was the Piz Gloria Qub. He told me if I found you 
to tell you to watch your step, to look after yourself.' She 
laughed. 'How right he was ! Well, so I left Davos, which had 
really put ine on my feet again, like you said it would, and I 
came up to Samaden the day before yesterday. The Seilbahn 
wasn't tunning yesterday, so I was going to come up today 
to look for you. It was all as simple as that. Now you tell.' 

' They had been keeping up a good speed down the sloping, 
winding road into the yalley. Bond turned to look through 
the rear window. He swore under h^ breath. Perhaps a mile 
behind, tvdn lights were coming after them. The girl said, 
'I bdpw. I've been watching in the mirror. I'm afraid they're 
gaining a Httle. Must be a good driver wjio knows the road. 
Prohably got snow-chains. But I think I can hold them. Now 
go on. What have you , been up to?' 

' ' '" 165- ' 



so that it pointed to the left, towards the flimsy fence that 
closed off the yards of old road leading to the collapsed 
bridge. Bond tore at the fence, pulling the stakes out, flatten- 
ing it. Glare showed round titie comer behind him. He leaped 
across the temporary road into the shadow of the mountain, 
flattened himself against it, waited, holding his breath. 

The Mercedes was coming faster than it should over the 
bumpy track, its chains clattering inside the mudguards. 
It made straight for the black opening to which the arrow 
now pointed. Bond caught a glimpse of white, strained faces 
and then the desperate scream of brakes as the driver saw 
the abyss in front of him. The car seemed almost to stop, 
but its front wheels must have been over the edge. It balanced 
for a moment on its iron belly and then slowly, slowly 
toppled and there was a first appalling crash as it hit the 
rubble beneath the old bridge. Then another crash and 
another. Bond ran forward past the lying arrow and looked 
down. Now the car was flying upside-down through the air. 
It hit again and a fountain of sparks flashed from a rock 
ledge. Then, somersaulting, and with its lights somehow still 
blazing, it smashed on down into die gorge. It hit a last 
outcrop that knocked it sideWays and, spinning laterally, 
but now with its lights out and only the glint of the moon 
on metal, it took the last great plunge into the iced-up river. 
A deep rumble echoed up from the gorge and there was the 
patter of rocks and stones following the wreckage. And then 
all was peaceful, moonlit silence. 

Bond let out his breath in a quiet hiss between his clenched 
teeth. Then, mechanically, he straightened things out again, 
put up the remains of the fence, lifted the arrow, and put it 
back facing to the right. Then he wiped his sweating hands 
down the side of his trousers and walked unsteadily down 
the road and round the next comer. 

The little white car was there, pulled in to the side, with 
its lights out. Bond got in and slumped into his seat. Tracy 
said nothing but got the car going. The hghts of Filisur 
appeared, warm and yellow in the valley below. She reached 
out a hand and held his tightly. 'You've had enough for one 

168 



•And there are three in the car behind? Would they kill lis 
if they caught us?' 

'I'm afraid so. I haven't got any weapons. I'm sorry, 
Tracy, but I'm afraid you wouldn't have much chance either, 
being a \ntness and a sort of accomplice of mine. These 
people think I'm pretty bad news for them.' • 

'And you are?' 

'Yes. From now on, I'm the worst.' 

'Well, I've got pretty bad news for you. They're gaining 
on us and I've only got a couple of gallons left in the tank. 
We'll have to stop m Filisnr. There won't be a garage open 
and it'll mean waking someone up. Can't hope to do it under 
ten minutes and th^'ll have us. You'll have to think up some- 
thing dever.' 

There was a ravine and an S turn over a bridge. They were 
comiQg out of the first curve over the bridge. Lights blazed 
at them from across the ravine. There was half a mile between 
the two cars, but the range across the ravine was perhaps only 
three hundred yards. Bond wasn't surprised to see the 
familiar blue ilames flutter from the front of the car. Chips 
of granite from the overhang splattered down on the bonnet 
of the car. Then they were into the second half of the S bend 
and out of sight of tiieir pursuers. 

Now came a stretch of reconstnictibn work where there 
had been a landslide. There were big warning notices : 'Ach- 
tung! Baustelle! Vorsichtig Fahren!' The broken road 
hugged the mountain-side on the right. On the left was 
rickety facing and then a piredpice falling hundreds of feet 
down into a gorge witi an ice-floed river. In the middle of 
the bad stretch, a huge red wooden arrow pointed right to a 
narrow track across a temporary bridge. Bond suddenly 
shouted 'Stop!' ' 

Tracy pulled up, her front wheels on the bridge. Bond 
tore opai the door. 'Get on! Wait for me round fte next 
comer. It's the only chance.' 

Good girl! She got going without a word. Bond ran back 
the few yards to the big red arrow. It was held in the forks 
of two upright poles. Bond wrenched it oS, swung it round 

167 ■ 



day. Go to sleep. I'll get you to Ziitich. Please do what I 
say.' 

Bond said nothing. He pressed her hand weakly, leaned his 
head against the door jamb and was instantly asleep. 
He was out for tb& count. 



169 



19 



Lom for Brisakfast . 

In the grey dawn, Ziirich airport was depressing and almost 
deserted, butj blessedly, there was a Swissair Caravelle, 
delayed by fog at London Airport, waiting to take off for 
London. Bond parked Tracy in the restaurant and, regret- 
fully forsaking tihb smell of coffee and fried eggs, went and 
bought himself a ticket, had his passport stamped by a sleepy 
oflBicial (he had half expected to be stppped, but wasn't), 
and went to a tdephoiie booth atid shut tdmsetf in. He 
looked up Universal Export in 'the telephone book, and read 
underneath, as he had hoped, 'Hauptvertreter Alexander 
Muir. Privat Wohnung' and the number. Bond glanced 
through the glass window at the dock in the departure hall; 
Six o'dock. Wdl, Muir would jiist havie to take it. 

He rang the huimbef and, after minutes^ a sleepy voice said, 
'Jal Hier Muir.' ' . \ 

Bond said, 'Sorry, 410, but this is 007. I'm calling froni 
the airport. Jhis is bloody urgaat so I'll haVe to take a chance 
on your line being buggdi. Got a paper and pendl?' 

The voice at the other end had grbw brisker., 'HaHg on, 
007. Yes, got it. Go ahead.' ■ 

'First of all I've got some bad news, Your Numbw Two 
has had .it. Ahnost for sure. Can't give you any detsiils over 
this line, but I'm off to London in; about an hour -^ Swiss- 
air Flight 110 - and I'll signal the dope back straight away. 
Could you put that on the teleprinter? Right. Now I'm 
guessingthatinthenextdayor so apartybften girls, British, 
mU be coining in hercyby helicopter fiom the Engadine. 
Yellow Sud Aviation Alouette. I'll be tdeprinting their 
names back from London some time today. My bet is they'll 
be flying to England^ probably on different flights and per- 
haps to Prestwick and Gatwick as well as London Airport, 
if you've any planes using diose airports. Anyv?ay, I guess 

... 170 



they'll be dispersed Now, I think it may be very important 
. to tell London their flight numbers and ETA. Rather a big 
jobj but ril get you authority in a few hours to use men from 
Berne and Geneva to lend a hand. Got it? Right. Now I'm 
pretty certain you're blown. Remember the old Operation 
Bedlam that's just been cancelled? Well, it's him and he's 
got radio and he'U probably have guessed I'd be contacting 
you this morning. Just take a look out of the window and see 
if there's any sign of watchers. He's certainly got his men in 
Ziirich;' 

'Christ, what a shambles ! ' The voice at the other end was 
tight with tension. 'Hang on.' There was a pause. Bond 
could visualize Muir, whom he didn't know except as a 
number, going over to the window, carefully drawing aside 
the curtaia. Muk came back on the wire. 'Looks damn like it. 
There's a black Porsche across the road. Two men in it. I'll 
get my friends in the Sdcurite to chase them away.' 

Bond said, 'Be careful how you go about it. My guess is 
that our man has got a pretty good fix in with lie police. 
Anyway, put all this on the telex to M personally, would 
you? Ciphered of course. And tell him if I get back in one 
piece I must see him today, with 501 [the Chief Scientific 
Officer to the Service] and if possible with someone in the 
same line of business from the Ministry of Agriculture and 
Fisheries. Sounds daft, but there it is. It's going to upset their 
paper hats and Christmas pudding, but I can't help that. 
Can you manage all that? Good lad. Any questions? ' 

' Sure I oughtn't to come out to the airport and get some 
more about my Number Two? He was tailing one of Red- 
land's men. Chap's been buying some pretty odd stufif from 
the local rep. of Badische Anilin. Number Two thought it 
seemed damned fishy. Didn't tell me vfhat the stufE' was. 
Just thought he'd better see where it was being delivered to.' 

'I tliought it must be some kind of a spiel like that. No. 
You stay away from me, I'm hot as a pistol, going to be . 
hotter later in the day when they find a certain Mercedes at 
the bottom of a precipice. I'll get off the line now. Sorry to 
have wrecked your Ouristmas. 'Bye.' 



Bond put down the receiver and went lip to the restaurant 
Traqr had been watching the door. Her face lit: up when she 
saw him. He sat down very close to her and took her hand, 
a typical airport farewell couple. He ordered plenty of 
scrambled eggs and coffee. 'It's all right, Tracy. I've fixed 
; everjrthing at my end. But now about you. That car of yours ' 
is going to be bad news. There'll be people who'll have 
' seen you drive away with the Alercedes on your tail. Thect 
always are, even; at midnight on Christmas Eve. And th? big 
man on t9p of the. mountain has got his men down here too. 
You'd better finish your breakfast and get the hell on over 
the feontierl Wliich is the nearest?' 

' Schaffhausen or KonstanZj I suppose, but' - she pleaded - 
■Jamesi do I have to leave you now? It's bi^en so long waiting 
for you. And I have: done well, liaven't I? Why do you want to 
purdsh me?' Tears, that would never have been there in ttie 
Royale days, sparkled in her eyes. She. wiped them angrily 
away with the back of her hand. 

Bond suddenly thought,: HfeUr I'll bever find another girl, 
like this one. She's got everything I've' ever looked for in a 
woman. She's beauidful, in. bed and out. She's adventurous, 
brave, resourceful. She's exdting always. She seems to love 
me. She'd let m^ go on wilii my lifd She's a lone girl, not 
duttered up widi Mendsi relations, bdongirigs. Above alii she 
needs me. It'll be someone for me to look after, I'm fed up 
with all these untidy, casual affairs that leave me with a bad 
consdehce. T wouldn't miud having children. I've got Ho 
social bacl^ound into whicli she would or wouldn't fit. 
.We're' two of a pair, really. Wily not make it for always? 

Bond found his voice saying those words that he had never^ 
; said in his life before, never cjqjected to say. ■ ; / ! ' ' - ' 

'Tracy. Hove you. Will you marry me?' 

She turned very pale/ She looked at him Wori^eriligly. 
. Her iips tremibfed, 'You meain, that?* ■ ; " ' 

; : ' Yes, I mean it. With ail my heaxt.' ' ; 
' She took her hand away fi:om Ids, and piit her . face in h«^ 
Jjands. When she removed theinisnd was smiling; 'I'jii sorry, 
James. It's so much what I've been dreaming; of. It came as a 
, ■ 172 ■■ 



shock. But yes. Yes, of course I'll marry you. And I won't be 
silly about it. I won't make a scene. Just kiss me once and I'll 
be going.' She looked seriously at him, ait every detail of his 
face. Then she leaned forward and they Wssed; ■ ■ 

She got up briskly. '.I suppose . I've got to get used to 
dqing what yoU say. I'll drive' to Munich.' fq the Vier 
Jahreszeiten. It's my favourite 'hotel in tie world. I'll wait 
for you tiiere. They know me. They'll .|:^e me in without 
any. luggage. 'Everything's at Samaden. fll'Just have to send 
out fpr a tbofhrbrush and stay inbed for two days until I can 
go out and get sbme things. You'll 'telephone me? Talk to ' 
me? When can we get married? I must tell Papa. He'll be 
terribly ^xdted.';, i.r 

'Let's get mariied in Munich. At the Consulate. I've got a 
kind of diplomatic immunity. I can get the papers through 
ijuicHy. Then we can be married again in an English church, 
or Scottish rather. That's where I come &om. I'll call you up 
tonight and tomorrow. Fll get to you just as soon as 1 can. 
I've got to finish this business first.' 

'You promise you won't get hurt?' ' 

Bond smiled. 'I wouldn't think of it. For once I'll run 
away if someone starts any shooting.' - 

'ML right then.' She looked at hina^'darefully again. 'Ill's 
time yoii 'took off that ried handkerthief. I suppose you 
realize if s bitten j:o ribbons. Give it to me. Til mend it' 

Bond undid the red bandanna froin round his neck. It was 
a dark, sweat-soaked rag. And she was right,, Tv?o corners of 
it were in shreds. He must have got them between his teeth 
and chewed ori liieni when ,|he; going was bad down the 
mountain. He couldn't remember liaviilg?'dj6ne gave it 
to her. V ■'" ' ■ - ' 

. iShe tbpk it andj^ back, walked straight out 

Qf the restaurant jmd dp^'lie st^ 

Bond sat down. His breakfast came and he began eating 
mechanically. What had he done?'What in hell had he done? 
But the only answer was a feeling of tremendous warmth 
and relief and excitement. James and Tracy Bond! Com- 
mahder and Mrs Bond! How utterly, uttorly extraordinary! 



The voice of the Tannoy said, 'Attentionj please. Pas- 
sengers on Swissair Flight Number 110 for London, please 
assemble at gate Number 2. Swissair Flight Number 110 for 
London. Passengers to gate Number 2, please.' 

Bond stubbed out his cigarette, gave a quick glance roimd 
their trysting-place to fix its banality in his mind, and walked 
to the door, leaving the fragments of his old life torn up 
amidst the debris of an airport breakfast. 



174 



20 

M en Pantoufles 

Bond slept in tie plane and was visited by a terrible 
nightmare. It v/as the hallway of a very grand town-houscj 
an embassy perhaps, and a wide staircase led up mider a 
spangled chandelier to where the butler was standing at the 
door of the drawing-room, fcom which came the murmur of a 
large crowd of guests. Tracy, in oyster satin, was on his arm. 
She was loaded with jewels and her golden hair had been 
piled up grandly into one of those fency arrangements you 
see in smart hairdressers' advertisements. On top of the 
pile was a diamond tiara that gUttered gorgeously. Bond was 
dressed in tails (where in hell had he got those from?), 
and the wing collar stuck into his neck below the chin. He 
was wearing his medals, and his order as CMG, on its blue 
and scarlet ribbon, hung below his white tie. Tracy, was 
chattering, gaUy, excitedly, looking forward to the grand 
evening. Bond was cursing fte prospect before him and 
wishing he was playing a tough game of bridge for high 
stakes at Blades. They got to the top of the stairs and Bond 
gave his name. 

, 'Commander and Mrs James Bond!' It was the stentorian 
bellow of a toast-master. Bond got the impression that a 
sudden hush fell oyer the elegant crowd in the gilt and white 
drawing-room. 

He followed Tracy through the double doors. There was a 
gush of French from Tracy as she exchanged those empty 
'Mayfair* kisses, that end up wide of the kissers' ears, with 
her hostess. Tracy drew Bond forward. 'And tiis is James. 
Doesn't he look sweet with that beautiful medal round his 
neck? Just like the old De Reszke cigarette advertisements!' 

'Fasten your seat belts, please, and extinguish your 
dgarettes.* 

Bond awoke, sweating. God Almigjityl What had he 
175 



done? But no! It wouldn?t be like that! Definitely not. He 
would still have his tough^ exciting life^ but now there would 
be Tracy to come borne to. Would there be room in his flat 
in Chelsea? Perhaps he could rent the; floor above. And what 
about May, his Scottish treasure? That wotjld be tiicky. He 
must somehow persuade her to stay. 

The Caravelle Mt the runway and there came the roar of 
jet deflection, and then they were trundling over the tarmac 
in a light drizzle. iBon^ stiddenly realized that he had no 
luggage, that he could go straight to Passport Control and 
then out and back to his flat to change out of these ridiculous 
skiing clothes that stank of sweat. Would there be a car 
from the pootfor him? There was, with Miss Mary Good- 
nlght'sitting beside the driver. , 

'My God, Mary, this is a hell of a way to spend your 
Christmas! This is far beyond the line of duty, Anyway, get 
in the back and teU me Vvhy you're not stirring the plum 
pudding or going to chittch ot something.' , 

She climbed in to the back seat and he fpllowed. She said, 
■You don't seem to know much about Christmas. You inake 
plum puddings at least two months before and let them sort 
of settle and mature. And .church isn't till eleven;' jShe; 
glanced at him. 'Actually I cimie to see how you were. I 
gather you've beisn in trouble again. You certainly look 
pretty ghastly. Don't you own a comb? And you haven't 
shaved. You look like a pirate. And'-- she wrinkled her nose - 
'when did you last have a batt? I wonder they let you dut pf , 
ihe airport. You ought to be in quarantine.' 

Bond laughed. 'Winter sports are very strenuous - all that 
snowballing and tobogganing. Matter of fact, I was at a 
Christmas Eve fancy-dress party last night. Kept me up till 
all hours.' , ' . 

^In those great dpd-hopping ]joots? J don't beUeV^ 

'Well, sucks toyouITtwas ohasfcating-riiife But sMously, 
Mary, tell me the scorei Why this VIP treatment?' 

'M. You're to. check with HQ first and then go down to 
lunch with .him at. Quarterdeck. Then, after lunch, he's 
having these men you wanted brought down for a Qonference. 



Everything top priority. Sol thought I'd better stand by too. 
As you're wreckmg so many other people's ChristmaseSj 
I thought I might as well throw jnine on the slag-heap with 
the others. Actually, if you want to knowj I was only having 
lunch with an aunt. And I loathe turkey and plum pudding. 
Anyway, I just didn't want to miss the fun and when the 
duty officer got on to me about an hour ago and told me 
there was a major flap, I asked him to tell the car to pick me 
up on the way to the airport.' 

Bond said seriously, 'Well, you're a damned good girl. 
As a matter of fact it's going to be the hell of a rush getting 
down the bare bones of a report. And I've got something for 
the lab to do. Will there be someone there?' 

'Of course there will. You know M insists on a skeleton 
staff in every Section, Christmas Day or not. But seriously, 
James. Have you been in trouble? You really do look awfiil.' 

*0h, somewhat. You'll get the photo as I dictate.' The 
car drew up. outside Bond's flat. 'Now be an angd and stir 
up May while I dean myself up and get out of these bloody 
clothes. Get her to brew me plenty of black coffee and to 
pour two jiggers of our best brandy into the pot. You ask 
May for what you like. She might even have some plum 
piudding. Now then, it's nine-thirty. Be a good girl and call 
the Duty Ofl&cer and say OK to M's orders and that we'll 
be along by ten-thirty. And get him to ask the lab to stand 
by in half an hour.' Bond took his passport out of his hip- 
pocket. 'Then give this to the driver and ask him to get the 
hell over and give it to the Duty Officer personally. TeU the 
DO' - Bond turned down the comer of a page - 'to tell the 
lab that the ink used is er - home-made. All it needs is 
exposure to heat. They'll understand. Got that? Good girl. 
Now come on and we'll get May going.' Bond went up the 
steps and rang two shorts and a long on the bell. 

* * * 

When Bond got to his desk a few minutes after ten-thirty, 
feding back to nine-tenths human, he found a folder on his 
desk with the red star in the top right comer that meant 

177 



Top Secret. It contained his passport and a dozen copies of 
blown-up photostats of its page 21. The list of girls' names 
was faint but legible. There was also a note marked 'per- 
sonal'. Bond opened it. iHe laughed. It just said, 'The ink 
showed traces of an excess of uric acid. Tids is often due to a 
super-abundancy of alcohol in the blood-stream. You have 
been warned!' There was no signature. So the Christmas 
spirit had permeated even into the solemn crevices of one 
of the most secret Sections in lie building! Bond crumpled 
the paper and then, thinking of Mary Goodnight's suscepti.- 
bilitiesj more prudently burned it with his lighter. 

She came in and sat down with her shorthand book. 
Bond said, 'Now this is only a first draft, Mary, and it's 
got to be fast So don't mind about mistakes. M'll under- 
stand. We've got about an hour and a half if I'm to get dovm 
to Windsor by lunch-time. Think you can manage it? All 
right then, here goes. "Top Secret. Personal to M. As 
instructed, on December 22nd I arrived at Zurich Central 
Airport at 1330 by Swissair to inake first contact in connexion 
with Operation 'Corona' .. ."' 

Bond turned sideways to his secretary and, as he talked, 
looked out across the bare trees in Regent^s Park, remember- 
ing every minute of the last three days - the sharp, empty 
smell of the air and the snow, the dark green pools of Biofeld's 
eyes, the crunch as the edge of his left hand, still bruised, 
thudded down across the offered neck of the guard. And 
then all the rest until Tracy, whom, without mention of 
romance, he left in his report on her way to the Vier Jahres- 
zeiten in Mutdch. Then the report was finished and the 
muted clack of Mary's typewriter came frorii behind the 
closed door. He would ring.Tracy up that night when he got; 
back to his flat. He could akeady hear her laughing voice at' 
the other end of the wire. The nightmare, in' the plane was 
forgotten. Now there was only the happy, secret Ipoking- 
: forward to the days to come. Bond lost himselfini his plans - 
how to get the days oS, how to get the, necessary papers, 
where to have the service in Scotland^- Then he ptJled him- 
self together, picked up the. photpstat ojntaining the girls' 



iiam¥s Emd went up to the Conim 
■V the teleprinter to Station Z. ■[■^■l' 

M would have preferred to Uye'by -the sea, near Plymouth 
perhaps or Bristol - ianywhere where he codd see tihe stuff 
whenever he wanted to and could listen to it at night. As it 
wasj and since he had to be within. easy call of London, he 
had chosen the iiext best- tjung' to water:! trees,- and had 
found a sm^ Regency nianor-hpuse on the edge of Windsor 
Forest. This was on pcpvm liaidds, 'a^^ had always 
suspected that an ounce of 'Grace and Favour' had found its 
way into M's lease. The head of the Secret Service earned 
;£5,000 a year, with the use of ail- ancient Rolls Royce and ; 

, driver thrown in, M's naval pay (as a Vice-Admifal on the 
retired Est) would add perhaps anQlker £lj500« After taxes, 
he would have about ;;{^4,000 to spend. His London life would 
probably take at least half of that. Only if his rent and rates 
came to no inpre than jC500, wotild he be , able to keep a 
house in the countryj aiid a beautiful small Regency house 

■ at that. . • ^ ■ 

These thoughts ran again through Bond's irund as he 
swung the clapper of the brass ship's-biill of some former 
HEMS Repulse, the last of whose line, a battle-cariusar, had 
been Ai's final sea-going appointmeht. Hammond, M's Chief ; 
Petty Officer in that ship, who had fpllowed M into retire- 
ment, greeted Bond as ah old ficiehd, aid he was ishpy?n into 
M's study. : ■. 

; M had one of the stock bachelor's hobbies; He painted in 
\yater-colour. He painted only the wild orchids of Eugland, 
in the meticulous but uninspired fashion of the naturahsts 
of the nineteenth century. He was now at his painting-table 
up against the window, his broad back hunched over his 
drawing-board, with, in front6f him,"an extremely dim little 
flower in a tooth-glass full of water- When Bond came in 
and dosed the door, M gave the flower one last pierdngly i 
inquisitive glance. He got tp his feet with obvious reluctance. .i; 
But he gave Bond one of his rare smiles and said, 'Aftefhoon, 



James.' (He had the sailor's meticulous observance of the 
exact midday,) 'Happy Christmas and all that. Take a chair.' 
M himself went behind his desk and sat down. He was about 
to come on duty. Bond automatically took his traditional 
place across the desk from his Chief. 

M began to fill a pipe. 'What the devil's the name of that 
fat American detective who's always fiddling about with 
orchids, those obscene hybrids from Venezuela and so forth? 
Then he comes sweating out of his orchid house, eats a 
gigantic meal of some foreign muck and solves the murder. 
Whaf s he called?' 

'Nero Wolfe, sir. They're written by a chap called Rex 
Stout. I like them.' 

'They're readable,' condescended M. 'But I was thinking 
of the orchid stuff in them. How in hell can a man like those 
disgusting flowers? Why, they're damned near animals, and 
their colours, all those pinks and mauves and the blotchy 
yeUov? tongues, are positively hideous ! Now that' - M waved 
at the meagre Httle bloom in the tooth-glass - 'that's the real 
thing. That's an Autumn Ladj^s Tresses - spiranthes spiralis, 
hot that I care particularly. Flowers in England as kte as 
October and should be under the ground by now. But I got 
this forced-late specimen from a man I know - assistant to a 
chap called Summerhayes who's the orchid king at Kew. 
My friend's experimenting with cultures of a fungus which 
oddly enougih is a parasite on a lot of orchids, but, at the 
same time, gets eaten by the orchid and acts as its staple 
diet. Mycorhiza it's called.' M gave another of his rare 
smiles. 'But you needn't write it down. Just wanted to take 
a leaf out of this feflow Nero Wolfe's book. However' - M 
brushed the topic aside - 'can't expect you to get excited 
about these things. Now then.' He settled back. 'What the 
devil have you been up to?' The grey eyes regarded Bond 
keenly. 'Looks as if you haven't been getting much sleep. 
Pretty gay these winter sport places, they^ tell me.' 

Bond smiled. He reached into his inside pocket and took 
out the pinned sheets of paper. 'This one provided plenty of 
miscellaneous entertainment, sir. Perhaps you'd like to have 

180 



a look at my report jSrst. 'Fraid it's only a draft. There wasn't 
much time. But I can fill in anything that isn't clear.' 

M reached across for the papers, adjusted his spectacles, 
and began reading. 

Soft rain scratched at the windows. A big log fell in the 
grate. The silence was soft and comfortable. Bond looked 
round the walls at M's treasured collection of naval prints. 
Everywhere there were mountainous seas, crashing cannon, 
bellying sails, tattered batde pennants - the fury of ancient 
engagements, the memories of ancient enemies, the French, 
the Dutch, the Spaniards, even tbe Americans. All gone, all 
ftiends now with one another. Not a sign of the enemies of 
today. Who was backing Blofeld, for instance, in the in- 
scrutable conspiracy in which he was now certainly engaged? 
The Russians? The Chinese? Or was it an independent job, 
as Thunderball had been? And what was the conspiracy? 
What was the job for the protection of which sk or seven of 
Blofeld's men had died within less than a week? Would M 
read anything into the evidence? Would the experts who 
were coming that afternoon? Bond lifted his left wrist. 
Remembered that he no longer had a watch. That he would 
certainly be allowed on expenses. He would get another one 
as soon as the shops opened after Boxiug Day. Another 
Rolex? Probably. They were on the heavy side, but they 
worked. And at least you could see the time in the dark with 
those big phosphorus numerals. Somewhere in the hall, a 
clock struck the half-hour. 1.30. Twelve hours before, he 
must have just set up the trap that killed xb& three men iu the 
Mercedes. Self-defence, but the hdl of a way to celebrate 
Christmas! 

M threw the papers down on his desk. His pipe had gone 
out and he now slowly lit it again. He tossed the spent match 
accurately over his shoulder into the fire. He put his hands 
flat on the desk and said - and there was an unusual kindness 
in his voice - 'Well, you were pretty lucky to get out of that 
one, James. Didn't faiow you could ski.* 

'I only just managed to stay uprigjit, sir. Wouldn't like to 
try it again.' 

181 



'No. And I see you say you can't come to any conclusions 
about what Blofeld is up to?' 

'That's rightj sir. Haven't got a due.' 

'Wellj nor have I. I just don't understand any part of it. 
Perhaps the professors'll help us out this afternoon. But 
you're obviously right that it's spectre all over again. By 
the way, your tip about Fontresiiia was a good one. He was a 
Bulgar. Can't remember his name, but Interpol turned him 
up for us. Plastic explosives expert. Worked for KBG in 
Turkey. If it's true that the U2 that fellow Powers was 
pUothig was brought down, by delayed charges and not by 
rockets, it may be this man was implicated* He was on the 
list of Suspects. Then he turned free-lance. Went into 
business on his own. That's probably when spectre picked 
him up. We were doubtM about your identification of 
Blofeld. The Fontresina.lead hdped a lot You're absolutely 
sure of him, are you? He certainly seems to have done a good 
job on his face and stomach. Better set him up on the 
Identicast when you get back this evening. We'll hs^ve a look 
at him and get the views of the medical gentry.' 

'I think it must be him, sir. I was really getting the 
authentic smell of him on the last day - yesterday, that is. 
It seems a long time ago already.' . 

'You were lucky to run into this girl. Who is she? Some 
old flanie of yours?' M's mouth turned down at the comers. 

' JVIore or less, sir. She catlie into my report on the first 
news we got that Blofeld Was in Switzerland. -Daughter of 
this man Draco, head of the Union Corse. Her mother was an 
English governess.' 

*Hm. Interesting breeding. Now then. Time for lunch. 
I told Hammond we weraa't to be disturbed.' M' got up and 
pressed the bell by the fir&-place. "Fraid we've: got to go 
through the turkey and plum pudding routine. Mis Ham- 
mond's been brooding over her pots and pans for weeks. 
Damned sentimental rubbish.' ' v 

Hammond appeared at the door, and Bond followed M 
through and iuto the smaD dining-rbom beyond the haU 
whose walls gUttered with M's other hobby, the evolution 

182 ' ■■ 



of the naval cutlass. They sat down. M said, with mock 
ferocity, to Hammond, 'M right. Chief Petty OfiBcer Ham- 
mond.. Do your worst/ And then, with real vehemence, 
*^l7hat in heU are those things doing here?* He pointed at the 
centre of the table. 

'Crackers, sir,' said Hammond stolidly. 'Mrs Hammond 
thought that seeing as you have company, i /■ 

'Throw them out. Give 'em to the schoolchildren. Til 
go so fer with Mrs Hammond, but I'm danmed if I'm going 
to have my diniag-room turned into a nursery.' 

Hammond smiled. He said, 'Aye, aye, sir,' gathered up the 
shimmering crackers and departed. 

Bond was aching for a drink. He got a sniall glass of very 
, old Matfsala and inost of a bottle pf very bad Algerian wineT 

M treated his two glasses as if they had been Cli&teau 
Lafitte. 'Good old "Infuriator". Staple drink for the jQeet 
in; the Mediterranean. Got real guts to it. I remember an old 
shipmate of mine, McLachlan, my Chief Gxmnery GjEScer at 
the time, betting he could get down six botdfes of the stuff. 
Damn fool. Measured his length on the wardroom floor after 
orJy three. Drink upj James! Drink up!' 

At last the plum pudding arrived, flaming traditionally. 
Mrs Hainmond had implanted several cheap silver gewgaws 
in it ahd M nearly broke a tooth on the miniature horseshoe. 
Bond got the bachelor's button. He thbnght of Tracy. It 
should have been the ring! 



183 



21 



The Man from Ag. and Fish. 

They had coffee in M's study and smoked the thin black 
cheroots of which M allowed himself two a day. Bond 
burnt his tongue on his. M continued with his stories about 
the Navy whidh Bond could listen to all day - stories of 
battles, tornadoes, bizarre happenings, narrow shaves, courts 
martial, eccentric officers, neatly-worded signals, as when 
Admiral Somerville, commandiDg the battleship Queen 
Elizabeth, had passed the liner Queen Elizabeth in mid- 
Atlantic and had signalled the one word 'SNAP 'I Perhaps 
it was all just the stuff of boys' adventure books, but it was 
all true and it was about a great navy that was no more and 
a great breed of officers and seamen tihiat would never be seen 
again. 

It was three o'clock. A car's wheels scrunched on the 
gravel outside. Dusk was already creeping into the room. 
M got up and switched on the lights and Bond arranged two 
more chairs up against the desk. M said, 'That'll be 501. 
You'll have come across him. Head of the Scientific Research 
Section. And a man called Franklin from the JVIinistry of 
Agriculture. 501 says he's the top on his subject - Pest 
Control. Don't know why Ag. and Fish, chose to send him in 
particular, but the Minister told me they've got a bit of 
trouble on their hands, wouldn't tell even me what it is, and 
they think you may have run into something pretty big. 
We'll let them have a look at your report and see what they 
make of it. All right?' • 

'Yes, sir.' 

The door opened and the two nien came in. 

Number 501 of the Secret Service, whose name Bond 
remembered was Leathers, was a big-boned, rangy man with 
the stoop and thick spectacles of the stage scientist. He had a 
pleasant, vague snule and no deference, but only politeness, 

184 . 



towards M. He was appropriatdy dressed in shaggy tweeds 
and his knitted wooUen tie didn't cover his collar stud. The 
other man was small and brisk and keen-lookingj with dart- 
ing, amused eyes. As became a senior representative of a 
Ministry who had received Ms orders from his Minister in 
person and who knew nothing of Secret Services, he had put 

, on a neat dark-blue pin-stripe and a stiff white collar. His 
black shoes gleamed efficiently. So did the leather of his fat 
brief-case. His greeting was reserved, neutral. He wasn't 
quite sure where he was or what this was all about. He was 
going to smell his way carefully in this business, be wary of 
what he said and how far he committed his Ministry. Of 

I such, Bond.refiected, is 'Government'. 

' When the appropriate greetings and apologies for dis- , 
turbed Christmases had been made, and they were in their 
chairs, M said, 'Mr Franklin, if you'll forgive my saying so, 
everydiing you are going to isee dnd hear in this room is 
subject to the Official Secrets Act. You will no doubt be in 
possession of many secret matters affecting your own 

' Ministry. I would be grateful if you would respect those of 
the Ministry of Defence. May I ask you to discuss what you^ ^ 
are about to hear dhljr with your Mfflisteir personajly?' 

Mr Franklin made a little bow of acquiescence. 'My 
Minis cer has already instructed me accordingly. My par- 
ticular duties in the Ministry have accustomed me to handling 
Top Secret mattacs. You need have no reservations in what 
you tell me. Noy? then* - the amused eyes resl;ed on each of 
the other three in turn - 'perhaps you can tell me what this 
is all about. I know practically nothing except that a man 
on top of ah alp is making efforts to improve oiit agriculture 
and livestock. Very decent of him. So why are we treating 
him as if hehad stolen atdmic sectets?' 

'He did once, as a matter of fact,' said M drily. 'I think 
the best course would be for you and Mr Leathers to read 

' the report of my representative here. It contains code 
numbers and other obsojore references which need not con- 
cern you. The story tells itself without tiiem.^ M handed 
Bond's teport to 501. 'Most of lik ;«wffll be new to you alsoil; ; 

. .185 ■ ' ' '■■ ; :' 



Perhaps you would like to read a page at a time and then 
pass them on to Mr Franklin.' 

A long silence fell in the room. Bond looked at his finger- 
nails and hstened to the rain on the window panes and the 
soft noises of the fire. M sat hunched up, apparently in a 
doze. Bond lit a cigarette. The rasp of his Ronson caused 
M's eyes to open lazily and then close again. 501 passed 
across the last page and sat back. Franklinfinished his reading, 
shufEled the pages together, and stacked themneatly in fiont of 
him. He looked at Bond and smiled. 'You're lucky to be here.' 

Bond smiled back but said nothing. 

M turned to 501. 'Well?' 

501 took off his tihick spectacles and polished them on a 
none too dean handkerchief. 'I don't get the object of the 

exercise, sir. It seems perfectly above-board - praiseworthy, 
in fact, if we didn't know what we do know about Blofeld. 
Technically, what he has done is this. He has obtained ten, 
or rather elevenj counting the one that's left the place, 
suitable subjects for deep hypnosis. These are all simple 
girls from the country. It is significant that the one caUed 
Ruby had failed her GCE twice. They seem to suffer, and 
there's no reason to beheve that they don't, from certain 
fairly common forms of allergy. We don't know the origins 
of their allergies and these are immaterial. They are probably 
psychosomatic - the adverse reaction to birds is a very 
common one, as is the one brought on by cattle. The re- 
actions to crops and plants are less common. Blofeld appears 
to be attempting cures of these allergies by hypnosis, and not 
only cures, but a pronounced affinity with the cause of the 
allergy in place of the previous repulsion. In the case of 
Ruby, for instance, she is told, in the words of the report, to 
'■love" chickens, to wish to "improve their breed" and so 
forth. The mechanical means of the cure are, in practice, 
simple. In the twilight stage, on the edge of sleep - lie sharp 
ringing of the bell would waken those who were already 
asleep - the use of the metronome exactly on the pulse- 
beat, and the distant whirring noise, are both common 
hypnotic aids. The singsong, authoritative murmur is the 

186 



usual voice of the hypnotist. We have no knowledge of what 
lectures these girls attended or what reading they did, but we 
can assume that these were merely additional means to 
influence the mind in the path desired by Blofeld. Now, 
there is plenty of medical evidence for the efficacy of hypnosis. 
There are well-authenticated cases of the successful treat- 
ment by these means of such stubborn disabilities as warts, 
certain types of asthma, bed-wetting, stammering, and even 
alcoholism, drug-taking, and homosexual tendencies. Al- 
though the British Medical Association firowns officially on 
the practitioners of hypnosis, you would be surprised, sir, to 
know how many doctors themselves, as a last resort, par- 
ticularly in cases of alcoholism, have private treatment firom 
qualified hypnotists. But this is by the way. All I can con- 
tribute to this discussion is that Blofdd's ideas are not new 
and that they can be completely efficacious.' 

M nodded. 'Thank you, Mz Leathers. Now would you 
like to be unscientific and ha2ard any wild guesses that would 
contribute in any way to what you have told us?' M smiled 
briefly. 'You will not be quoted, I can assure you.' 

501 ran a worried hand through his hair. 'Well, sir, it may 
be nonsense, but a train of thought came to me as I read the 
report. This is a very expensive set-up of Blofdd's. Whether 
his intentions are benign or malignant, and I must say that I 
think we can accept them as being malignant, who is paying 
for all this? How did he faU upon this particular field of 
research and find the finance for it? WeU, sir, this may 
sound fanciful, looking for burglars under the bed, so to 
speak, but the leaders in this fidd, ever since Pavlov and his 
salivating dogs, have been the Russians. If you recall, sir, 
at the time of the first human orbiting of the earth by the 
Russians, I put in a report on the physiology of the astronaut 
Yuri Gagarin. I drew attention to the simple nature of this 
man, his equable temperament when faced with his hysterical 
welcome in London. This equability never failed him and, 
if you will remember, we kept hm under discreet observa- 
tion throughout his visit and on his subsequent tours abroad, 
at the request of the Atomic Energy authorities. That bland, 

187 



smiling fece, sir, those wide-apartj innocent eyes, the 
estxeme psychological simplidiy of the man, all added up, 
as I said in my report, to the perfect subject for hypnosis, 
and I hazarded the guess that, in the ejrtremely complicated 
movements required of him in his space capsule, Gagarin 
was operating throughout in avState o!f deep hypnosis. All 
right, sir' - 501 made a throw-away gesture of his hand - 
'my conclusions were officially regarded as fanciful. But, 
since you ask, I now repeat them, and I throw out the sug- 
gestion that the Power behind Blofeld in all this may well be 
the Russians.' He turned to Bond. 'Was there any sign of 
Russian in-piration or guidance at this Gloria place? Any 
Russians anywhere in the oflSng?' 

'Well, there was this man. Captain Boris. I never saw 
him, but he was certainly a Russian. Otherwise nothing I can 
think of except the three SPECTRE men who I'd guess were 
ex-Smersh. But they seemed definitdy staff mei^ what the 
Americans would call "mechanics".' 

501 shrugged. He, said to M, 'Well, Tvd afraid thaf s all 
I can contribute, sir. But, if you come to the conclusion that 
this is dirty business, for my raoney, this Captain Boris was 
either the paymaster or supervKOf of me scheme and Blofeld 
the independent operator. It would fit in with the firee-lance 
character of the old spectre - an independent gang working 
for whoever was willing to pay them.' 

'Perhaps you've got something there, Mr LeatheiS,^ said 
M reflectively. 'But what the devil's the object of the exer- 
cise?^ He turned to Franklin. 'Well now, Mr Franklin, what 
do j/oM think of all this?' 

The man from Ag. and Fish, had Ut a small, highly 
polished pipe. He kept it between his teeth and reached down 
for his brief-case and took out some papers. From among 
them he extracted a black and white outline map of Britain 
and Eire and smoothed it down acfoss the desk. The map 
was dotted with symbolsj forests of thein here, blank spaces ; 
there. He saiid, 'This is i map shpwfing the total agricultiural 
and Hvestock resources of Britain and Eire, leaving out grass- 
land and timber. Now, at my first sight of the report, I admit 



I was completely confused. As Mr Leathers saidj these 
experiments seon perfectly harmless - more than that, to 
use his word, praiseworthy. But' - Franklin smiled - 'you 
gentlemen are concerned with searching for the dark side of 
the moon. I adjusted my mind accordingly. The result was 
that I am fiUed with a very deep and terrible suspicion. Per- 
haps these black thoughts have entered ihy mind by a process 
of osmosis with the present company's way of looking at the 
world' - he looked deprecatingly at M - 'but I also have one 
piece of evidence which may be decisive. Excuse me, but 
there was one sheet of paper missing from the report - the 
list of the girls and their addresses. Is that available? ' 

Bond took the photostat out of his inside pocket. 'Sorry. 
I didn't want to clutter up the itep'ort too much.' He slipped 
it across the table to Franklin. 

Franklin ran his eyes down it. Then he saidj and there 
was atve iii ibis voice, 'I've got it! I do beilievie' rve §otit,!' 
He sat back heavily in his chair as ifhe cduldii't beHeve vrhat 
he had seen. • 

The three men watched him tensely, believing him, 
because of what was written on his face - waiting for it. 

Frariklin took a red pencil out of his breast pocket and 
leaned over the map. Glancing from time to time at the 
list, he made a series of red circles at seemingly unrelated 
points across Britain and Eire, but Bond noticed that they 
covered the areas where the, forests, of symbols were at their 
densest. As he made the circles he c6mii:?erited, 'Aberdeen - 
Aberdeen Angus, Devon - Red Poll, Lancashire - poultry, 
Kent - firuit. Shannon - potatoes,' until ten red circles stood 
out on the map. Finally he poised his; pencil over East Anglia ,, 
and made a big cross. He looked up, said 'Turkey' and 
threw his pencil down. ■ 

In the silence that followed, M said, rather testily, 'Well," 
Mr Franldin, what haVe yoii in mind?' , 

The man from Ag. and Fish, had no intention of being 
pushed about by someone, however grand and liush-hush, 
froru janother JWinistry, He bent and dug again into his 
brieif-case. He canie up with several papers. He selected one, 

189 



a newspaper cutting. He said, 'I don't expect you gentlemen 
have time to read much of the agricultmral news in the paper, 
but this is from the Daily Telegraph of early December. I 
•won't read it all. It's from their agricultural correspondent, 
good man by the name of Thomas. These are the headUnes : 
"CONCERN OVER TURKEYS. FLOCKS RAVAGED 
BY FOWL PEST". Then it goes on: "Supplies of turkeys 
to the Christmas market may be hit by recent fowl pest 
outbreaks which have resulted in large numbers of birds 
being slaughtered . . and further down, "Figures available 
show that 218,000 birds have been slaughtered , . . last year, 
total supphes for the Christmas market were estimated at 
between 3,700,000 and 4,000,000 birds, so much will depend 
now on the extent of further fowl pest outbreaks."' 

Mr Franklia put the cutting down. He said seriously, 
'That news was only the tip of the iceberg. We managed to 
keep later details out of the press. But I can tell you this, 
■ gentlemen. Within the past four weeks or so we have 
slaughtered three million turkeys. And that's only the 
beginning of it. Fowl pest is running wild in East AngUa 
and there are also signs of it in Hampsliire, where a lot of 
turkey-raising goes on. What you ate at lunch today was 
almost certainly a foreign bird. We allowed the import of two 
million from America to cover this position up.' 

M said sourly, 'Well, so far as I'm concerned, I don't 
care if I never eat another turkey again. However, I see 
you've had quite a problem on your hands. But to get back 
to our case. Where do we go from turkeys?' 

Franklin was not amused. He said, 'We have one clue. 
All the birds that died first were exhibited at the National 
Poultry Show at Olympia early this month. Olympia had 
been cleared and cleaned out for the next exhibition before 
we had reached that condusion, and we could find no trace 
on tlie premises of the virus - Fowl Pest is a virus, by the 
way, highly infectious, with a mortality of one hundred per 
cent. Now then' - he held up a stout white pamphlet with the 
insignia of the United States on it - 'how much do you 
gentlemen know about Biological Warfare?' 

190 



Leathers said, ' We were indirectly cGncerned in the fringes 
of the sul?ject during the war. But in the encl neither side 
used it. Around 1944 the Aniericans had a plm for de^^^ 
the whole of the Japanese rice crop by the use of aerial 
sprays. Butj as I recall, Roosevelt vetoed the; idea.' 

'Right/ said Franklin. 'Dead right. But the subject is still 
very much"aHve. And very much so in my JVtinistry. We 
happen, to be the most highly agriculturalized country in the 
world. We'had to make ourselves so during the War to keep 
ourselves from starvation. SOj iQ theory, we would be ah 
ideal target for an attack of this Wnd.' He slowly brought 
his hands down on the table fpr emphasis. .'I don't think it 
Would be too mudi to say^i gentteinenj that^i^ an attack 
could be launched^ and it|ean only becpuotered.by slaughter- 
ing the poultry and animals and humihg the cf ops, we would 
be a barikiupt country within a matter of months. We, 
Would litttally be down on our knees, begging for bread!' 

•l>Ieyer thought of that,' paid M leflectively, 'biit it seetns 
to make sense.* 

'Now this/ continued FranHin, holding up the pamphlet,, 
'is the latest thinkihg on the subject by our friends in 
America., It also covers Chemical and Radiological Warfare, 
Mt we're hot concerned with those - jCW, BW, and RW 
they call them, if s a United States Senate paper, Number 
58991, dated August 29th, 1960, prepared by '^ The Sub- 
committee on Disarmament of the Colmnittee oh Foreign 
Rektions". jVly Ministry goes along with the general finidings 
brit BW; ynxb. tiie reservation that Amexiia is a '^ast toto 
and we are a very small and tightly-pacfecid one. BW would 
hit us a thousand times hardei;, than it ' would hit the States. 
May I read you a few extracts?' : ' ' 

M positively loithed &e; problems of othar^ A^ 
In the eiid, on the Intelligenee side, they all , ended up oh his 
plate. Bond, amused, watched:him summon an expression of 
poHte interest. 'Go ahead, Mt:;#raiiklin.' ' 



22 



Something Called 'BW 

Franklin began reading in an even, expository tone of 
voice, frequently stopping to explain a point or when he 
skipped irrelevant passages. 

'This section,' he said, 'is headed "Biological Warfare 
Weapons and Defense". This is how it goes on: 

'"Biological Warfare,' he read, 'is often referred to as 
bacteriological, bacterial, or germ warfare but it is preferred 
over those terms because it includes all micro-organisms, in- 
sects and other pests, and toxicproducts of plant and animal life. 
The Army Usts five groups of BW agents, including certain 
chemical compounds used to inhibit or destroy plant growth: 

Alicro-organisms (bacteria, viruses, rickettsiae, ftmgi, 

protozoa). 
Toxins (microbial, animal, plant). 
Vectors of disease (arthropods (insects and acarids), 

birds and animals). 
Pests (of animals and crops). 

Chemical anti-crop compoxmds (plant-growth inhibi- 
tors, herbicides, defoliants). 

'"Biological Warfare agents, like Chemical Warfare 
agents, vary in lethality, making it possible to select an agent 
best suited to accomplish the objective desired, whether it be 
temporary incapacity with little after-effects or serious illness 
and many deaths. There are some important differences 
between BW and CW other than their scientific classifica- 
tions. BW agents have an incubation period of days, some- 
times weeks' - (Franklin looked up. 'See what I mean about 
Olympia?') - 'which produces a lag in their action while CW 
weapons usually bring reactions within a few seconds to a few 
hours. CW agents are easier to detect than BW agents, and 
identification of the latter could often be too late to permit 

192 



effective counter-measures.' (Franklin again looked signi- 
ficantly at his audience) '. . . BW agents theoretically are 
more dangerous^ weight for weight, than CW agents, though 
this advantage may be cancelled because of loss of virulence 
by BW agents un.det exposure." ' 

Franklin paused. His finger went down the page. 'Then 
it goes on to talk about anti-personnel BW agents like anthrax, 
typhus, smallpox, botuhsm, and so on. Yes' - his finger 
stopped - 'here we are. "Anti-animal BW agents which 
might be used to incapacitate or destroy domestic animals are : 

Bacteria: Anthrax, diree dosely related species of 
' brucella, and glanders. 
Viruses : Foot-and-mouth disease, rinderpest. Rift 
Valley fever, vesicular stomatitisj vesicular exanthema, 

hog cholera, Afi:ican swine fever, fowl plague, New- 
castle disease, and equine encephalomyeHtis."': 

Franklin looked up apologetically. 'Sorry about all this jaw- 
breaking stuff, but there's not much more of it. Then it 
goes on to "Anti-crop BW agents", which they say would be 
used as economic weapons, as I personally think is the case 
with the Blofeld scheme, and they mention a whole list 
including potato blight, cereal stem disease, crown rust of 
oats, curly top disease of sugar-beets, block rot of crucifers 
and potato ring rot, and insects such as the Colorado beetle 
and something called "the Giant Affican Land-snail", 
which I somehow don't think we need worry about. Then 
they talk about "chemical anti-crop agents", but I don't 
think we need worry about those either as they'd have to be 
sprayed from an aeroplane, though, for what it's worth, 
they're damned lethal. Now, this is more to the point.' 
Franklin's finger halted on tlie page. '"The nature of BW 
agents makes them very adaptable for covert or tmdercover 
operations. The fact that these agents are so concentrated, 
cannot be detected by physical senses, and have a delayed 
casualty effect, would enable an operator quietly to introduce 
effective amounts into building ventilation systems, food 
and water supplies, and other places where they would be 

193 



spread rapidly through contact with a heavily concentrated 
populationi" ' FraidcUn paused. 'And that means TK. Ypu see 
what I mean about livestock shows and so on? After the show, 
the virus gets carried off all oyer the ccfimtry by the exhibits.' 
He went back to Ms pampHet, 'And here it goes onj "A 
significant fector is that tepos^ible afea of efe^^ 
is generally greater wifli BW than; with CW agents. Tests ; 
; have been made Which shovv that coverage measured in the 
: thousands of square miles is qiiite feasible with biological 
agents/*' Frank% tapped the papec m 
^ , poison gasesj 

, the nerve gases the Germans invented in the war. We m 
, and counter-march about radiation and .the atom ibpmb. 

■ ' ''Thousands of square miles" it says here. A Coinmittee of 
the United Slates Senate says it.,, How inmy lliou^ 
square niiles ate there in the United B3ngdom and Eire, 
gentlemen? ' The eyesj urgent and holding humour qb longeji 

. , looked , alrqipst scornfully into . the faces of these three top 
officers of the Secret Service. 'I'U teU you^ Th^^^ 
something oyeii onb . hvuddrfed thon^ Square ioiles of this 
httle atoll of ours, iiiicluding the Uttlie atoll of all Ireland.' 
; Hfe eyes retaiflpd their fite. 'And let me jiist give you a last 
quote and then perhaps' - the eyes^regained soitie of their 
humour - 'yPu'U realize why I'm getting so steamed up on 
this Day .of Goodwill to all Men. Look, here, what it says 
aiider:''I)efc9isiye MeasM It says, "Defense against B\7 
warfare is greatly cpinpUcated by the difficultira invo 
^ detection of BW agentsi -a.' situation which is almost unique 
- as to these weapons.''' (Frankiiii looked up and now 
snnled; 'Baid Eiglish. Perhaps we might improve on " as to ?'.) 

■ "Th6y cannot be detected by sight, smellj' or , any oliher 

■ physical sense. S6 far no means have been devised for their 
; quick detection and identification."' 

^ ' Fraiiklm threw the pamphlet pii tb'tfie desk. Suddenly he 
' gave a big, embractng.sniile. He' reached foir Ms Htfle pc^^^ : 
pipe and began filling it. 'M right, gentienaeri. The prosecu- 
tionrests.';-. , ... 
FraQklinhadhadhisday,iehristmashewouldnever forget. 



M said, 'Thank you, Mr Franklin. Am I right in thinMng 
that you conclude that this man Blofeld is mounting Bio- 
logical Warfare against this country?' 

'Yes.' Franklin was definite. 'I am.' 

'And how do you work that out? It seems to me he's doing 
exactly the opposite - or rather it would if I didn't know some- 
thing about the man. Anyway, what are your deductions? ' 

Franklin reached over and pointed to the red cross he had 
made over East Anglia. 'That was my iirst clue. The girl, 
Polly Tasker, who left this Gloria place over a month ago, 
came firom somewhere round here where you'll see firom the 
symbols that there's the greatest concentration of turkey 
farmers. She suffered firom an allergy against turkeys. She 
came back inspired to improve the breed. Within a week of 
her return, jve have the biggest outbreak of fowl pest affecting 
turkeys in the history of England.' 

■ Leathers suddenly slapped his thigh. 'By God, I think 
you've got it. Franklin! Go on!'' 

'Now' - Franklin turned to Bond - 'when this o&cer 
took a look into the laboratory up there he saw rack upon 
rack of test-tubes containing what he describes as "a doudy 
liquid". How would it be if those were viruses. Fowl Pest, 
anthrax, God knows what all? The report mentions that the 
laboratory was lit with a dim red| light. That would be 
correct. Virus cultures suffer from exposure to bright light 
And how would it be if before this Polly girl left she was 
given an aerosol spray of the right stuff and told that this 
was some kind of turkey elixir - a tonic to make them grow 
fatter and healthier. Remember that stuff about "improving 
the breed" in the hypnosis talk? And suppose she was told 
to go to Olympia for the Show, perhaps even take a job for 
the meeting as a cleaner or something, and just casually spray 
this aerosol here and there among the prize birds. It wouldn't 
be bigger than one of those shaving-soap bombs. That'd be 
quite enough. She'd been told to keep it secret, that it was 
patent stuff. Perhaps even that she'd be given shares in the 
company if the tonic proved the success tliis man Blofeld 
claimed it would. Ifd be quite easy to do. She'd just wander 

195 



round the cages - perhaps she was even given a special purse 
to carry the thing in - lean up against the wire and psst! 
the job would be done. Easy as falling off a log. All right, if 
you'll go along with me so far, she was probably told to do 
the job on one of the last two days, of the show, so that the 
effects wouldn't be seen too soon.: Then, at the encj of the 
show, all the prize birds are dispersed back to their owners 
all over England. And that's that! .And' - he paused - 
'mark you, that mas that. Three million birds dead and still 
dying ^ over theplace, and a great chunk of foreign, currency 
coii^^d up by the Treastuiy to tfepilace them? 

Leathers, his face red. with "excitement, butted in. Se 
swept his hand over the map. 'And the other girls! All firom 
the danger spotSv All from the areas of greatest concentration. 
Local shows taking place ill the tiihe - cattle, poultry, even 
potatoes - Colorado beetle for that crop, I suppose, Swine 
Fever for the pigs. Golly ! ' There was reverence in Leathers's 
voice,' 'And it's so damned simple! All you'd need would 
be to keep the viruses at the right temperature for a while. , 
Jhey'd be insiiiu<a£d that, tiie Uttle.dM all the. 

time they'd be sure they Were ibeing saiiite! Mai^ I 
really must hand it to the man.' 

M's face was thunderous with the fury of his indecision. 
He turned to Bond. He barked, 'What do you think?* t ! 

' J'm afraid it fits, sir. The wbole way along the line. WC;- 
know the tnan. It fits Jaia: tob> Right .up his street. And it 
doesn't even matter who's payiag him. He can pay himselfj 
rnake a fortune. AU he has to do is ^o a bear of sterling or 
Gilt-Edged. If Mr Franklin's rigjit, and that Senate paper's 
pretty splid backing for him^ our currenqr'll literally go 
ihrough tihefloor .'' and the country with it.' ' : 

M got to his feet. He said, 'All right, gentlemen. Mr 
Franklih, will you tell your Aiinister what you've beard? 
It'll be up to him . to tdl tbe PM and the Cabinet as lie 
thinks fit. I'll get oil . with thfe' isfeventive meastures, first 
of all through Sir Rondd Vallance of the CED, We must 
pick up this Polly womSn anid get the others as they come 
into the country. They'll be gently treated. It's not their fault.. 



Then WU Mve to think what to do with Mister Blofeld.'; 
He tum^ to Bond. 'Stay belmdj would you?' 

Goodbyes were said and M rang for Hammond to see the . 
oth,er'two oiiti He then fang agaiii, ''!re'aij' please^ Hammond.' 
He turned to Bond. 'Or rather have a whisljy and soda?' , 
'WHsky, please, sir/ said Bond TOti .inj5nite relief. 
' Rot-gut/ commented M. He walked ■ dyer: to the: window 
and looked out at the datkness and rain,. 

Bond drew Franklin's map towards him and studied it. 
He reflected that he was learning, quite a lot on this case - 
about other people's businesses/ other people's seaetSj from 
the innards of the College of Arms to the innards of Ag. and 
Fish, Odd how this: giganticj niany-branchedtree had grown 
from one tiny seed in Sept^ber ai girl (SJling banco iii a 
casino and' not having the money to pay. And what about 
Bond's letter of resignation? That looked pretty silly now. 
He was up to his ears, as deeply as ever in his life before, 
in his old profession. And now a big mopping-up job would 
have to be done: And he would have to do itj or at any rate 
lead it, organize it. And Bond knew exactly what he wa? 
going to put to M when the tea and whisky came. Only he 
could do the cleaning up. It was written in his stars! 

Hanmond. came in with the tray,, and wiri 
b^ck to his desk/ gruffly told Bond to poiurhjro 
aiid himself took a vast cup, as big as a baby's chamber-pot, 
of black tea without sugar or milk, and put it in front of him. 

At length he . said moodily,' 'TMs is a dirty ' business, 
James. But I'm afraid, it makes sdiise. 5Better do something 
about it, I suifSpose.* He reached foi! the re^ telephone with 
scrambler attachment that stood beside the bjack one on his 
desk and picked up the receiver. It was ,a direct line to that 
very private switchboard in Whitehall to Which perhaps fifty 
people in all Britain have access. Tut ine dn to Sii; Ronald 
\ Vallahce, would you? SorQe huinber/I s^pose/ He reached 
i out and took a deep gulp at his cup of tea and pufthe cup 
I back on its saucer. Then, 'That you, Vallance?;M here. 
) Soity to disturb your 'afternoon nap.'' There, was an audible 
> expiosiion at the other end of the line! M smiled. ^Reading a 
! : . • ■ ■ ' ■ . 197 ::■ 



report on teen-age prostitution? I'm ashamed of yoa. On 
Christmas Day too. WeDj scramble, would you?' M pressed 
down the large black button on the side of the cradle. 'Right? 
Now I'm afraid this is top priority. Remember Blofeld and 
the Thunderball case? Well^ he's up to his tricks again. 
Too long to explain now. You'll get my side of the report in 
the morning. And Ag. and Fish, are mixed up in it. Yes, of all 
people. Man called. Franklin is your contact. One of their 
top pest-control men. Only him and his Minister. So would 
your chaps report to him, copy to me? I'm only dealing 
with the foreign side. Your friend 007's got the ball. Yes, 
same chap. He can fill you in with any extra detail you may 
need on the foreign angles. Now, the point is this. Even 
though it's Christmas and all that, could your chaps try at 
once and lay their hands on a certain girlj Polly Tasker, aged 
about 25, who lives in East Anglia? Yes, I knbw it's a hell of a 
big area, but she'll probably come from a respectable lower- 
middle-class family connected with turkey farming. Certainly 
find the family in the telephone book. Can't give you any 
description, but she's just been spending several weeks in 
Switzerland. Got back the last week ih November. Don't 
be ridiculous ! Of course you can manage it. And when you 
find her, take her into custody for importing Fowl Pest into 
the country. Yes, that's right.' M spelt it out. 'The stuff 
that's been killing all our turkeys.' M muttered 'Thank 
God!' away from the receiver. 'No, I didn't say anjfthing. 
Now, be kind to the girl. She didn't know what she was 
doing. And tell the parents it'll be all right. If you need a 
formal charge, you'll have to get one out of Franklin. Then 
tell Franklin when you've got her and he'll come down and 
ask her one or two simple questions. When he's got the 
answers, you can let her go. Right? But we've ^o? to find that 
girl. You'll see why all right when you've read the report. 
Now then, next assignment. There are ten girls of much the 
same type as this Pblly Tasker who'll probably be flying from 
Ziirich to England and Eire any day from tomorrow on.' 
Each one has got to be held by tiie Customs at the port or 
airport of entry. 007 has a fist of their names and fairly good 

198 



descriptions. My people in Zurich may or may not be able 
to give us warning of their arrival. Is that all right? Yes, 
007 will bring the list to Scotland Yard this evening. No, 
I can't teU you what it's all about. Too long a story. But 
have you ever heard of Biological Warfare? That's right. 
Anthrax and so on. Well, this is it. Yes. Blofeld again. I know. 
That's what I'm just going to talir to 007 about. Well now, 
VallancCj have you got aU that? Fine.' M listened. He smiled 
grimly. 'And a Happy Christmas to you.' 

He put the receiver back and the scrambler button auto- 
matically clicked to OFF. He looked across at Bond. He 
saidj with a hint of weariness, 'Well, that's taken care of this 
end. Vallance said it was about time we had this fellow 
"Blofeld in the bag-. I agree. And that% our job. And I don't 
for a moment think we're going to get any help fiom the 
Swiss. Even if we were to, they'd trample all over the case 
with their big boots for weeks before we saw any action. By 
that time the man would be in Peking or somewhere, cooking 
up something else.' M looked straight at Bond. 'Any ideas?' 

It had come, as Bond knew it would. He took a deep puU 
at his whisky and put the glass carefully down. He began 
talking, urgently, persuasively. As he expounded his plan, 
M's face sank deeper and deeper in gloom, ^nd, when Bond 
concluded with 'And that's the only way I can see, sir. All I 
need is two weeks' leave of absence. I could put in a letter of 
resignation if it would hdp,' M turned in his chaii and gazed 
deep into the dying flames of the log fire. 

Bond sat quietly, waiting for the verdict. He hoped it 
would be yes, but he also hoped it would be no. That 
damned mountain! He never wanted to see the bloody thing 
again! 

M turned back. The grey eyes were fierce. 'All right, 007. 
Go ahead. I can't go to the PM about it. He'd refuse. But for 
God's sake bring it off. I don't mind being sacked, but we 
don't want to get the Government mixed up in another U2 
fiasco. Right?' • 

'I understand, sir. And I can have the two weeks' leave?' 

'Yes.' ' 



199 



Gauloises and Garlic 



With the Walther PPK in its leather Holster Warm against 
his stomadi and his own nanie in his passport, James Bond 
looked out of the window at the English Channel sliding 
away beneath the belly of the Caravelle and felt more like his 
; oldj his pre-Sir Hilary Bray, sdf. . - . 

He glanced at the new Rolex on his wrist - the shops were 
still shut and be had had to blarney it out of Q Branch - 
and guessed they would be on time, 6 pm at Marseilles. It 
had been the hell of a rush to get off. He had Worked until 
late in the night at HQ and all that morning, setting up the 
Identicast 6f Blofdd, checking details with Ro^nnie VaUance, 
fixing up the private, the Munich side ofhis life, chattering 
on the teleprinter to Station Z, even remembering to teU Mary 
Goodnight to get on to Sable Basilisk after the holiday and 
ask him to please do some kind of a jol) on the surnaraes of 
the ten girls and please to have 'the family tree of Ruby 
Windsor einbellished, with gold capitals. 

At midnight he had called Tracy in Munich and heard her 
darling, excited voice. Tve got the toothbrush, James,* she 
had said, 'and a pile of books. Tomorrow I'm going to go up 
the Zugspitze and sit in the sun so as to look pretty for you;. 
Guess what I had for dinner tonight in my room! Biebs- 
sch wanze mit DiUtunke. That's crayfish tails with rice and a 
cream and dill sauce. And.JRehriicken mit Sabne. That's 
saddle of roebuck with a sndtane- sauce.- 1 bet it was better 
than what you had.' 

*i had two ham sandwiches with stacks of mustard and 
half a pint of Harper's Bourbon on the rocks. The bourbon 
was bett« thto th^ehsun. Nowli^^ 
down the telephone.' ' 
;:' .'I was only sighing with love.' ' ■ ' 

'Well, you must have got a Force five sigh. Now listen. 
■A't ■ 21(30 '':\ ' ■ ' ' ' 



I'm posting my birth certificate to you tomorrow with a 
covering letter to the British Consul saying I want to get 
married to you as soon as possible. Look, you're going up to 
Force Ten! For God's sake pay attention. It'll take a few 
daysj I'm afraid. They have to post the banns or something. 
He'll tell you all about it. Now, you must quickly get your 
birth certificate and give it to himj too; Oh, ^u have, have 
you? ' Bond laughed. ' So much the better. TTien we're all set. 
I've got .three days or so of work to do and I'm going down 
to see your father tomorrow and ask for your hand, both of 
them, and the feet and all the rest, in marriage. No, you're to 
stay where you are. Tliis is men's talk. Will he be awake? 
I'm going to ring him up now. Good. Well, now you go off to 
sleep or you'll be too tired to say "Yes " when the time comes.' 

They had not wanted to let go of each other's voices, but 
finally the last good-night, the last kiss, had been exchanged, 
and Bond called the Marseilles number of Appareils £lec- 
triques Draco, and"Marc-Ange's voice, almost as excited as 
Tiacfs, was on the line. Bond dampened down the raptures 
about, lie 'fian9ailles* and said, 'Now listen, Marc-Ange, 
I want you to give me a wedding present' 

'Anything, my dear James. Anything I possess.' He 
laughed. 'And perhaps certain things of wliich I could take 
possession. What is it you would like?' " 

'I'll tell you tomorrow evening, I'm booked on the after- 
noon Air France to Marseilles. Will you have someone meet 
me? And it's business, I'm afraid. So could you have your 
other directors present for a litde meeting? We shall need all 
our brains. It is about our sales organization in Switzerland. 
Something drastic needs to be done about it.' 

'Aha!' There was full understanding in the voice. 'Yes,'- 
it is indeed a bad spot on our sales map. I will certainly have 
my colleagues available. And I assure you, my dear James, 
tiiat anything that can be done will be done. And of cotmse 
you wiE be met I shall perhaps not be there in person - it is 
very cold out these winter evenings. But I shall see that you 
are properly looked after. Goodnight, my dear fellow. Good- 
night' 

.201 



The line had gone dead. The old fox! Had he thought 
Bond might cpmniit an indiscretionj or had he got fitted to 
his telephone a 'bug-metM% the deHcate instrument that 
measures the resonance on the line and warns: of listening-in? 

The winter sun ,^pread a j^st o£ang;e:^o 
overcast 10^000 feet hdow m6";s6fitly whistKn and 
switched itself off for 'liie night. : , j ' 

; Bond dozed, reflecting that :^e: must somehow, and pretty 
soon, find a way of ifiatdim ;^ 

Therfe was a ' stage-type Marseilles taxi-drivCT to meet 
Bond - the archetype of all Mariuses, with the face of a pirate 
and the razor-sharp badinage of the lower French music- 
balls. He was apparently known .and enjoyed by everyone at 
the airport, and Bbnd was whisked through the formalities 
in a barrage of wisecracks about 'le milord anglais', which 
made Marius, for his name turned out in fact to be Marius, 
the centre of attraction and Bond merely his butt, the dim- 
. witted English tourist. !Butj once in the taxi, Marius made 
curt, friendly apologies, over his shoulder.. 'I ask your pardon 
for my bad manners.' His French had suddenly purified 
itself of all patois. It also smelt fike acetylene gas; 'I was told 
to extract you from the airport with the least possible, lime- 
light'directed upon you. I know all those "flics" and douaniers. 
They all know mci K I had not been myself, the cab-driver 
they know as Marius, if I had shown deference, eyes, in- 
quisitive eyes, would have been upon you^ . mon Com- 
mandant. I did what I thought best. You forgive me? ' 

'Of course I do, Marius. But you shouldn't have been so 
' funny. You nearly ipade.me laugh. That would' have been 
fatal.' ' - 

'You understand our talk here?' 

'Enough of it,' , . ' '■ 

'So!' There was a piause.^ Then. Marius said, 'Alas^ since 
Waterloo;, one can ne's^er imdere'stimate the English.' . 

Bond said, seriously, 'The same date applied to the French; 
It was a near thing;' This was getting too gallant. Bond said, 

202 



'Now tell mcj is the botiiliabakse che!5,.!Giudo, always ais 
'good?'!:,''".. ■ \'. ' .\:- 

■'It is passable/ said Marius;. 'But this is a dish that is 
deadj gone. TJifcre is no more true, bpiiillabaissej because 
there is no niore fishiri liie Mediterraneto 
baisse, you must have 'lie : tascassej : the; tendd: fl^^ 
scorpion fish. Today they just use huiiks of morue. The, 
safiQron' and the garUcj they are always the same. But you 
could eat pieces of a woman soaked in those and it would be 
,go6d. Go tQ, any of the Httle pliacgs dow4: thfe 'harbouf. 
' Edt the; platldn .|dtit and''drink the -vih in dassis jtfaat' they, 
give ybii. It will fill your stomach as well as it fills the fisher- 
men's. The toilette wiUbeJELlthy. What does th^t matter? 
You are a nian. You can 
the ISToaillcs for nothing after lunch.' 

They were nbW vveavihg expertly through, the traffic down 
the famous Canebiere and Marius needed all his breath to ; 
insult thp other drivers.': Bond could Sinell the sea. The 
accordions yere playing in the caf&. He rememtiered old 
times in this most criminal and tough of all French towns. 
FTe reflected that it was rather fun^ this time, being on, the 
side of Che devLl. 

At the bottopi of the Canebierej where it crosses the Rue ' 
de Romej Marias tiniied right and then left ioto the Rue 
St Ferreolj! only a long stone's throw from the Quai des 
Beiges and the Vieux Port. The lights, from the harbour's 
entrance briefly, winked '^t them and then the taxi drew up 
at a hideous, but very new apartment house with a broad 
vitrine on ' the groimd flootj which announced in furious 
neon 'Appareils filectriques Draco'. The well-lit mterior of' 
the: store contained what you would expect television setSi 
radios,' gramophones, electric irons, fansi and so.forfh. Marius 
very quickly c^uxied Bond^s spitcase .across the pavement 
and through the^swing doors beside.the vitrine. The close- 
carpeted hallway , was more luxurious than Bond had ex- 
pected. A man came out of the porter's lodge beside' the lift 
and wordlessly took the suitcase. Marius turned to Bond,, 
gave him a smile and a wmk .and a bone-rcrushiag hand^ 

203 



shake, said curtlyj 'A la prochaine,' and hurried out. The 

porter stood beside the open, door of the lift. Bond noticed 
the bulge under his right arm andj out of curiosity, brushed 
against the man as he entered the lift. Yes, and something 
big too, a real stopper. The man gave Bond a bored look, as 
much as to say, 'Clever? Eh?' and pressed the top button. 
The porter's twin, or very nearly his twin - dark, chunky, 
brown-eyed, fit - was waiting at the top floor. He took 
Bond's suitcase and led the way down a corridor, dose- 
caipeted and with wall brackets in good taste. He opened a 
door. It was an extremely comforta"ble bedroom with a bath- 
room leading off. Bond imagined that the big picture window, 
now curtained, would have a superb view of the harbour. 
The man put down his suitcase and said, 'Monsieur Draco 
est immediatement k yotre disposition,' 

Bond thought it time to make some show of independence. 
He said firmly, 'Un moment, je vous en prie,' and went into 
the bathroom and cleaned himself up - amused to notice 
that die soap was that most English of soaps. Pears Trans- 
parent, and that there was a bottle of Mr Trumper's 'Eucris' 
beside the very masculine brush and comb by Kent. Marc- 
Ange was indeed making lais English guest feel at home! 

Bond took his time, then went out and followed the man 
to the end door. The man opened it without knocking and 
closed it behind Bond. Marc-Ange, his creased wahiut face 
split by his great golden-toothed smile, got up from his desk 
(Bond was getting tired of desks !), trotted across the broad 
room, threw his arms round Bond's neck and kissed him 
squarely on both theeks. Bond suppressed his recoil and 
gave a reassuring pat to Marc-Ange's broad back. Marc- 
Ange stood away and laughed. 'All right! I swear never to 
do it again. It is once and for ever. Yes? But it had to come 
out - from the Latin temperament, isn't it? You forgive W?=:: 
Good. Then come and take a drink' - he waved at a loaded 
sideboard - 'and sit down and tell me what I can do for you. 
I swear not to talk about Teresa until you have finished with 
your business. But tell me' - the brown eyes pleaded - 'it 
is all right between you? You have not changed your mind?' 

204 



. 

Bond smiled. 'Of course not, Marc-Ange. And everything 
is arranged. We will be married within the week. At the 
Consulate in Munich. I haye two weeks' leave. I thought we 
might spend the honeymoon in Kitzbiihel. I love that place. 
So does she. You will come to the wedding?' 

'Come to the wedding!' Marc-Ange exploded. 'You will 
have a time keeping me away from Kitzbiihel. Now then' - 
he waved at the sideboard - 'take your drink while I compose 
myself. I must Stop being liappy and be clever instead. My 
two best men, my organizers if you like, are waiting, I 
wanted to have you for a moment to myself.' 

Bond poured himself a stiff Jack Daniel's sourmash bour- 
bon on the rocks and added some water. He walked over to 
the desk and took the right-hand of the three chairs that had 
been arranged in a semicircle fadng the 'Capu'. 'I wanted 
that too, Marc-Ange. Because there are some things I must 
tell you which affect my country, I have been granted leave 
to tell them to you, but they must remain, as you put it, 
behind the Herkos Odonton - behind the hedge of your teeth. 
Is that all right?' 

Marc-Ange lifted his right hand and crossed his heart, 
slowly, deUberately, with his forefinger. His face was now 
deadly serious, almost cruelly implacable. He leaned for- 
ward and rested his forearms on the desk. 'Continue.' 

Bond told him the whole story, not even omitting his 
passage with Ruby. He had developed much love, and total 
respect, for this man. He couldn't say why. It was partly 
animal magnetism and partly that Marc-Ange had so opened 
his heart to Bond, so completely trusted him with his own 
innermost secrets. 

Marc-Ange's face remained impassive throughout. Only 
his quick, animal eyes flickered continually across Bond's 
face. When Bond had finished, Marc-Ange sat back. He 
reached for a blue packet of Gauloises, fixed one in the 
comer of his mouth and talked through the blue clouds of 
smoke that puffed continuously out through his hps, as if 
somewhere inside him there was a small steam-engme. 'Yes, 
it is indeed a dirty business. It must be finisjied with, 

205 



destroyed^ and the man too. My deai; James' the voice was 
soinbre - 'I am i criminalj a great criminal. I rmi houseSj 
chains of ptostitutesj I smuggle, I sell protection, whenever 
I can, I steal from the very rich. I break many laws and I 
have often had to kill in the process. Perhaps one dayj 
perhaps very, sbtn, I shall reforin. But it is diflScnlt to step 
down from beiog Capu of the Union. Without the protection 
of my men, my life would not be worth muchi However, we 
shall see. But this Blofeld, he is too bad, too disgusting. You 
have coine to ask the Union to"mafce war on iim, to destroy 
him. You need not answaCi I know it is so. TThis is some- 
tlung that cannot be done ofiQcially. Your Chief is correct. 
You would get nowhere with the Swiss. You wish me and 
my men to do the job.' He smiled suddenly, 'That is the 
wedding, present you talked of. Yes? ' 

"'That's right, Marc-Ahge. But I'll do my bit. I'll be there 
too. I want this man for myself.' , 

Marc-Ange looked at him thoughtfully. 'That I do not 
like. And you know why 1 do not like it.' He said niHdly, 
'You are a bloody fool, James, You are already lucky to be 
iaUve.' He slii?agg|ed. 'But I, am wasting my breath; You 
started on' a long road after this inan. And you want to come 
to the end of it. Is that right?' ' 

'That's right, I don't want someone else to shoot my fox.' 

'QK, OK. We bring in the others, yes? They will not 
need to know the reason" why. My order's are my orders. 
But we all need to know how we are to briug this about. I 
have some ideas; 1 think it can be dpne and swiftly done. But 
it inufet also be well donei cieanly done, Thfere ijinist ^e lio 
mtidiness about this thing.' 

Marc-Ange picked up ]his telephone and spoke into it. A 
minute later the door opened and two men came in and, 
with hardly a g;lance at Bond, took the otlier two chairs, 

Marc-Ange nodded at the one pftst' to Bond, a: great ox 
of a man with the splayed ears and broken,.nose :of a boxer, 
or wrestler. 'This is Che-Che - 'Ch6-Che le Persuadeur. 
And' - Marc-Ange smiled gruily A 'he is very adept at 
persuading,' ' . 



Bond got a glimpse of two hard yellow-brown eyes that 
looked at him quickly, reluctantly, and then went back to tibe 
, Capu, 'Plaisir/i, ^ : ■ . • . ' 

'And this is Toussaint, otherwise knoWn as "Le Pouff". 
He is our expert with le plastique. We shall need plemty of ' 
plastique.* 

'We shall indeed,' said Bohd, ' with pretty quid: dme- 
pencils.' - ' ' 

Toussaint leaned forward to show himself. He was thin 
and gj:ey-sldnned, wit3;i an almost ^ Phoenician profile 
pitted tiMi Sfflallppx. iBoM guessed that hie was on h 
but not as amainliner. He gave Bond a brief, conspiratorial 
smile; 'Plaisir.' He sat back. , • ; 

'And this'; - Mairc-Ange gestured at Bond -,'is my friend. 
My absolute iBciend. He is' simply "Le Commandant". And 
now to' business.' He had been speakmg in Frendij but he 
now broke intb rapid Gofsican which;, apart frdm a few 
Itahan and French toots, was incomprehensibie to Bond. At 
one period he drew a. large-scale map of Switzerland put of a 
drawer of his desk, spread it out, searcihed withlfe finge^, 
aiid pointed to a spot in the cebtre of the BQga:dinfe,; The two 
men craned forward, examined the map cardEioUy. aiid thien 
sat back. Che-Che said something which contaiiied the word 
Strasbourg and Marc-Ange nodded enthusiasticaUy, ' He ■; 
turned to Bond and handed a large sheet of paper and a 
pencil. 'Be a good chap and get to Work oh this, would you?, , 
A map of the Gloria buildings, witb approximate sizes and , 
distances '&om each other. Later we will do a conipl^te, 
inaquette in plasticine so that there is no. confusion. Every 
nian will have his job to do' ^ he smiled - 'like fSe com- 
mandos in the war. Yes?' ■ - : , • ' ; ' • :i ■ ' . 

Bond bent to his task while the others talked. The tele- 
phone rang. Marc-Ange picked it up; He jotted down a few 
words and tang off. Hb turned tp Bond, his eyes momentarily 
suspicious. 'It is a telegram- for me fiom London sighed 
Universal. It says, "The birds have assembled in the town 
and all fly tomorrow." What is this, my ftiend?' • - 

. Bond kicked himself for his forgetfulness.' 'I'm, sorry, 

' ' ■ '207 ■ ' 



Marc-Ange. I meant to tell you you might get a signal like 
tliat. It means that the girls are in Zurich and are flying to 
England tomorrow. It is very good news. It was important 
to have them out of the way,' 

'Ahj good ! Very good indeed ! That is fine news. And you 
were quite rigjit not to have the telegram addressed to you. 
You are not supposed to be here or to know me at all. It is 
better so.' He fired some more Corsican at the two men. 
They nodded their understanding. 

After that, the meeting soon broke up. Marc-Ange 
examined Bond's handiwork and passed it over to Toussaint. 
The man glanced at the sketch and folded it as if it were a 
valuable share-certificate. With short bows in Bond's direc- 
tion, the two men left the room. 

, Marc-Ange sat back with a sigh of satisfaction. 'It goes 
well/ he said. 'The whole team will receive good danger 
money. And th^ love a good rough fight. And they are 
pleased that I sun conung to lead them.' He laughed slyly. 
'They are less certain of you, my dear James. They say you 
will get in the way. I had to tell them that you could out- 
shoot and outfight the lot of them. When I say something 
like that, they have to believe me. I have never let them down 
yet. I hope I am right?* 

'Please don't try me,' said Bond. 'I've never taken on a 
Corsican and I don't want to start now,' 

Marc-Ange was delighted. 'You inight win with guns. 
But not in close combat. They are pigs, my men. Great pigs. 
The greatest. I am taking five of the best. With you and me 
that is seven. How many did you say there are on the 
mountain?' ''■ 

'About eight. And the big one,' 

'Ah yes, the big one,' said Marc-Ange reflectively. 'That 
is one that must not get away.' He got up. 'And now, my 
firiend, I have ordered dinner, a good dinner, to be served 
us up here. And then we will go to bed stinking of garlic and, 
perhaps, just a little bit drunk. Yes?' 

From his heart Bond said, 'I can't think of anything 
better.' .' . 

208 



24 



■ ' Blood-Lift 

THE' NEXT day, after lunchj Bond made his; way by plane 
... and train to the Hotel Maison Rouge at Strasbourg, his breath 
bearing h^rn close company like some noisome^ captive pet. 

He .was totally exhilarated by his hours witib. Marc-Ange 
m Marseilles and by the prospects before hini - fhe'jbb that , ; 
was to be done and, at the end of itj Tracy. 

The inomihg had been an endless series of conferences 
round the 'triodel of 'Piz. Gloria and its'..buildings that had , 
been put up in the night. New feces caihe, received their 
orders in a torrent of dialect, and disappeared - rpughj 
murderous faces, bandits' faces, but all bearing one common 
expression, devotion to. their Gapu. Bond was vastly irn- 
piresfeed by the authority and indsiveaess of Marc-Ange as hp 
dealt with each problem, each contingency> &orQ: the obtain- 
ing of a heUdoptet down to the pensions that wbiild be paid; I ■ 
to the families of the dead. Marc-Ange hadn't liked the heli- 
copter business. He had explained to Bond, ' You see, my : 
ftiend, there is only one source for this macihirie, tlie OAS, 
the French secret army of the right wing. It happens that 
they are under an obligation to me, a heavy one, and that is 
the way I would have it, I do not like being mixed up in : 
politics, I like the country where I operate to be orderly, 
peaceful, i dd not like revolutions. They ihake chaoS every- 
where. Today, I never know when an operation of my own 
is not going to be interfered with by some damned emergency , 
concerning Algerian terrorists, the rounding up of some nest 
of these blasted OAS. And i;pad blocks! House to house 
searches! They are the bane of my existence. My men Can 
hardly move without falling over a nest of flics or SDT spies - 
that, as I'm sure you know, is the latest of the French Secret 
, Services. They are getting as ha^ias the Russians with their 
constant chsmges of ihitisils.' It is the Section: Defense Terri- ' '^ 

209 " • ' : ■ • 



toire. It comes under the Ministry of the Interior and I am 
finding it most troublesome and difficult to penetrate. Not 
like the good old Deuxifeme. It makes life for the peace- 
loving very difficult. But I naturally have my men in the 
OAS and I happen to know that the OAS has a military 
helicopter, stolen ftom the French Army, hidden away at a 
chateau on the Rhine not far from Strasbourg. The cMteau 
belongs to some aazy fascist count. He. is one of those 
Frenchmen who cannot live without conspiring against some- 
thing. So now he has put all his money and property behind 
this General Salan. His chateau is remote. He poses as an 
inventor. His farm people are not surprised that there is 
some kind of flying machine kept in an isolated bam viiik 
mechanics to tend it - OAS mechanics, bien entendu. And 
now, early this morning, I have spoken on my radio to the 
right man and I have ths machine on loan for twenty-four 
hours with the best pilot in their secret air force. He is 
already on his way to the place to make his preparations, fael, 
and so .on. But it is unfortunate. Before, these people were 
in my debt. Now I am in theirs.'He shrugged. 'What matter? 
I will soon have them under my thumb again. Half the 
police and Ctistoms officers in France arc Corsicans. Itis an 
important laissez-passer for the "Union Corse. You under- 
stand?' 

* * * 

At the Maison Rouge, a fine room had been booked for 
Bond; He was greeted with exaggerated courtesy tinged 
with reserve. Where didn't the freemasonry of the Union 
operate? Bond, obedient to the traditions of the towh, made 
a simple dinner off the finest foie gras, pink and succulent, 
and half a bottle of champagne, and retired gratefully to bed^ 
He spent the next morning in his room, changed into his ski 
clothes, and sent out for a pair of snow-goggles and thin 
leather gloves, sufficient to give some protection to his hands 
but close-fitting enough for the handling of Ws gun. He 
took the magazine out of Ms gun, pumped out the single 
round m the chamber and practised shooting himself in the 

210 



wardrobe mirror with the gloves on xintil he was satisfied. 
Then he reloaded and got the fitting of the stitched pigskin 
holster comfortable inside the waist-band of his trousers. He 
had his bUl sent up and paid it, and ordered his suitcase to 
be forwarded on to Tracy at the Vier Jahreszeiten. Then he 
sent for the day's papers and sat in front of the window, 
watching the traffic in the street and forgetting what he read. 

When, at exactly midday, the telephone rang, he went 
straight down and out to the grey Peugeot 403 he had been 
told to expect. The driver was Che-Ch6. He acknowledged 
Bond's greeting curtly and, in silence, they drove for an hour 
across the uninteresting coimtryside, finally turning left off 
a secondary road into a muddy |ane that meandered through 
thick forest. In due course there was the ill-kept stone wall of 
a large property and then a vast broken-down iron gateway 
leading into a park. On the unweeded drive-way were the 
recent tracks of vehicles. They followed these past the 
dilapidated fajade of a once-imposing chateau, on through 
the forest to wbere the trees gave way to fidds. On the edge 
of the trees was a large bam in good repair. They stopped 
outside and Ch€-Ch6 sounded three shorts on his horn. 
A small door in the wide double doors of the bam opened 
and Marc-Ange came out. He greeted Bond cheerfidly. 
'Come along in, my friend. You are just in time for some 
good Strasbourg sausage and a passable Riquewihr. Rather 
thin and bitter. I would have christened it "Chateau Pis-de- 
Chat", but it serves to quench the thirst.' 

Inside it was almost like a fihn set. Lights blazed down on 
the ungainly shape of the Army helicopter and from some- 
where came the cough of a small generator. The place seemed 
to be full of people. Bond recognized the faces of the Union 
men. The others were, he assumed, the local mechanics. 
Two men on ladders were busily engaged painting red aosses^ 
on white backgrounds on the black-pamted fuselage of the 
machine, and the paint of the recognition letters, FL-BGS, 
presumably dvilian and false, still glittered wetly. Bond was 
introduced to tibie pilot, a bright-eyed, fair-haired young man 
in overalls called Georges. 'You will be sitting beside him,' 

211 • 



explained MaroAnge. 'He is a good; navigator, but he 
doesn't know the last stretch up the valley and he has never 
heard of Piz Gloria. You had better go over the maps with 
him after some foodi The general route is Basle-Ziirich.* 
• He laughed idxeetfuUy, He said in Frenchi '^^ ate going to 
have some mterestmg coDversatioD witib Air 
Defences, isn't it, Georges?' ^ 

Georges didn't smile. ' He said briefly, .'I think we can 
fool tiem,' and went about his busiiiess;: 

Bond accepted a foot of, garlic sausage, a hunk of bread, 
and a bottle of the *Pis-de-Ghat', and sat on an upturned 
packing-case while Marc-Ange went back to supervisiag the 
loading of the 'stores' - Schmeisser sub-machine guns and 
six-inch square packets in red oilcloth. . 

In due course, Marc-Ange lined up his team, , including 
Bond, and carried out a quick inspection of side-arms, which, 
in tEe case of the Union men, included weU-used flick- 
knives. The men, as well as Marc-Ange, were dpthed in 
brand-new ski clothes of grey cloth. Marc-Ange handed to 
aU of themL:;atinlets in black cloth bearing the neatly stitched 
words . '^Buridesalpenpolizei'. When. Marc-Ange gave Bond 
his, he comnlented, 'There is no such force as the " Federal 
Police 6f the Alps". But I doubt if our spectre ftiends will 
know that. At least the armbands Will make an important first 
impression.' -' ■ ' .: 

Marc-Ange looked at his watch. He turned and called but 
.to French, 'Two forty-five; All ready? Then let us roll! ' 

The ferm; tractor, attached to the wheel-base of the heU- 
copter started, up,:iiie gates of the .bam were fhrbwh wide, 
and the great metal insect moved slowly out on to the grass- 
land under the pale winter sun. The tractor was uncoupled 
and the pUot, followed by Bond, dimbed up the little 
aluminium ladder; and then into the raised cockpit and 
strapped themselves iii. ; The otiters followed iiito th^ ten- 
seat cabin, the ladder was pulled up, and the door banged 
and' locked. On the jgrbuiidj the mechanics lifted their thumbs 
and the pUot bent to his controls. He pressed the starter and, 
after a first indecisive cough,, the engine fired healthily and 



the great blades begsm to tarn. The pilot gMced back at the 
whirring tail-rotor. He waited while the needle on the rotor 
speed-indicator aept up to 200, then he released the wheel- . 
brakes and pulled up slowly oh the pitch-levef. The hdirV' 
copter trembled,, unwilling to leave the earthj but then catae . 
a slight jerk and thty were up and climbing rapidly above 
the trees. The pilot retracted" his wheels above the inflated 
snow-floats, gave the machine left rudder, pushed forward 
the joystickj and thiy were oflf. 

Almpst at once th.ey were over the Rhine and Basle lay 
ahead under a thick canopy of chiloney-isnioke. They reached 
two thousand feet and the piliDt held it, skirtifig the town to 
the hoi^h. iifow there came a crackle of static over Bond's 
car-phone§ and Swiss Air Control, in thick Schwyzerdiitch, ■ 
asked them politely to identijfy themselves^ The pilot made: 
no reply and the question was repeated with iiiore urgency.' 
The pilot said in French, 'I d^n't understand you.' There, 
was a pause, then a Frtench voice again queried them. The 
pilot said, 'Repeat yourself more dearly.' The voice did so. 
The pilot said, 'Helicopter of the Red Cross flying blood ., 
plasma to Italy^' The tadio went dead. Bond coidd imagine' 
the scene in the control room somewhere down below - the 
arguing voices, the doubtful faces.' Another voice, with more 
authority to it, spoke in French. 'What is your destination?,' ' 
'Wait,' said the pUot.' 'I have it here. A moment please.' 
After minutes he said, 'Swiss Air Control?' 'Yes, yes.': 
'FL-BGS reporting,! JJyly destination ds Ospedale Santa 
Moriica at Bellinzona.:\ Tie radio, again went d^ to 
V come to life five mmkd lte 'EL-BGS/Fl-BG^' ^Yes,' 
said the pilot. 'We' have no record Of your identification 
symbol. Please explain.' 'Your; tegistration manual must be 
out of date. The aircraft was commissioned: only one month 
ago.' Another long pause. Now Ziirich lay. ahead and the 
silver boomerang : of live Ziirictersee. ^N^ Airport 
came on the air. They must have been listening to Swiss Air 
Control. 'FL-BGS, FL-BGS.' 'Yes, yes. What is it now?' 
'You have jnfiitiged the Civil. Airlines:: Channel. Land and 
report to Flying Control; I repeat. Land and teport.' The 

213 ■ . ■ 



pilot became indignant. 'What do you mean "land and 
report"? Have you no comprehension of human suffering? 
Tliis is a mercy flight carrying blood plasma of a rare cate- 
gory. It is to save the life of an illustrious Itahan scientist at 
Bellinzona. Have you no hearts down there? You tell me to 
"land and report" when a life is at stake? Do you wish to 
be responsible for murder?' This Galhc outburst gave them 
peace until they had passed the Ziirichersee. Bond chuckled. 
He gave a thumbs-up sign to the pilot. But then Federal Air 
Control at Berne came on the air and a deep, resonant voice 
said, 'FL-BGS, FL-BGS. Who gave you clearance? I repeat. 
Who gave you clearance for your flight?' 'You did.' Bond 
smiled into his mouthpiece. The Big Lie! There was nothing 
like it. Now the Alps were ahead of them - those blasted 
Alps, looking beautiful and dangerous in the evening sun. 
Soon they would be in the shelter of the valleys, off the radar 
screens. But records had been hastily checked in Berne and 
the sombre voice came over to them again. The voice must 
have realiTied that the long debate would have been heard at 
every airport and by most pilots flying over Switzerland that 
eventQg. It was extremely polite, but firm. * FL-BGS, we 
have no record at Federal Air Control of your proposed 
flight. I regret but you are transgressing Swiss air-space. 
Unless you can give further authority for your flight, kindly 
return to Ziirich and report to Flying Control.' 

The hdicopter rocked. There was a flash of silver and a 
Dassault Mirage with Swiss markings flashed by not a 
hundred, yards away, turned, leaving a trail of black vapour 
fcQxa the slow-burning of its fuel at this low altitude^ and 
headed straight back at them, swerving off to port only at the 
last moment. The helicopter gave another, lurch. The pilot 
spoke angrily into his mouthpiece. 'Feder^ Air Control. 
This is FL-BGS. For further information contact Inter- 
national Bed Cross at Geneva. I am just a pilot. I am not a 
"rond de cuir"^ a chairbome flyer. If you have lost the 
papers, that is not my fault. I repeat, check with Geneva, 
And, in the meantime, kindly call off the whole of the Swiss 
Air Force which is at present trying to make my passengers 

214 



air-sick.' The voice came back, but libw inore faintly, because . 
of the mountains. 'Who are your passengers?' The pilot 
played his trump card. 'Representatives of the world's press. ' 
They have been listening to all this nonsense coming &om 
the home of the famous International Sed Qross. I wish you 
happy reading of your newspapers at breakfast-time to- 
morrow, gentlemen. And now, a little peace., yes? And please 
record in your log-books that I am not, repeat, not, the Soviet 
Air Force invading Switzerland.' 

There, was silence. The Dassatilt Mirage bad disappeared. 
They were dimbiiig tip the valley and were already past 
Davos. The gold-tipped needles of the gb'ttering mountains 
seemed to be closing in on them from right an^ left.^ Ahead 
were the great peaKs. Bond lobked-atihisjwatch^^ 
another ten minutes to go. . 

He turned and glanced down the hatch. The faces of Marc- 
Ange and of the! others looked up at him, tense and livid 
under the setting sun that poured in through the windows, ' 
their eyes glinting redly. 

Bond held up his thumb encomaging^y. He spread out , 
his ten' fingers in their thin leather gloves. 

Marc-Ange nodded. There was a shifting of the bodies 
in their seats. Bond turned back and gazed ahead, looking for 
tib.e Sorting peak that he loathed and feared. 



25 . 
HeWs Delight, etc. 

Yes ! There was the bloody place! Now only the peak was 
golden. The plateau and the buildings were in indigo shadow, 
soon to be lit by the full moon. 

Bond pointed. The helicopter wasn't liking the altitude. 
At 10,000 feet its rotors were finding it hard to get a grip 
of the thin air and the pilot was struggling to keep it at maxi- 
mum revs. As he turned to port, in towards the face of the 
mountain, his radio crackled sharply and a harsh voice said, 
in German and then in French, 'Landing forbidden., This is 
private property. I repeat, landing forbidden!' The pilot 
reached up to the cockpit roof and switched off the radio. 
He had studied his landing-point on the plateau on the 
mock-up. He got to it, hovered, and gently came down. The 
hdicopter bounced once on its rubber floats and settled. 
Already there was a group of men waiting' for them. Eight 
men. Bond recognized some of them. They all had their 
hands in their pockets or in their wind-jackets. The engine 
coughed to a stop and the rotors swung round briefly in 
neutral and halted. Bond heard the bang of the door being 
opened behind him and the rattle of the men piling down the 
ladder. The two groups lined up facing each other. Marc- 
Ange said, with authority, 'This is the Federal Police Alpine 
Patrol. There was trouble up here on Christmas Eve. We 
have come to investigate,' 

Fritz, the 'head waiter', said angrily, 'The local police 
have already been here. They have made their report. AH is ! 
in order. Please leave at once. What is the Federal PoUce 
Alpine Patrol? I have never heard of it.' 

The pilot nudged Bond and pointed over to the left, to 
the building that housed the Count aijd the laboratories. A 
man, dumsy in bob-sleigh helmet and padding, was running 
down the path towards the cable station. He would be out of 

216 



sight of the men on the ground. Bond said 'Blast!' and 
scrambled out of his seat and into the cabin. He leaned out of 
the door and shouted^ 'The Big One. He's getting away!' 

As Bond jumped, one of the spectre men shouted, 'Der 
Englander. Der Spionl* 'And'then, as Bond started running 
away to tibe right, weaving and dodging, all hell broke loose. 
There came the boom of heavy automatics as the speciee 
team got oflf their first rounds, and bullets, tracer, flashed 
past Bond with the noise of humming-birds' wings. Then 
came the answering roar of the Schmeissers and Bond was 
left alone. • 

Now he was round the corner of the club, and, a hundred 
yards down the slope, the man in the crash helmet had torn 
open the door of the 'garage' for the bob-sleighs in the 
foundations of the cable station. He emerged carrying a one- 
man skeleton bob. Holding it in front of him as a shidd, he 
fired a burst firom a heavy automatic at Bond and again the 
humming-birds whirred past. Bond knelt and, steadying his 
gun with two hands, fired three rounds with his Walther, 
but the man was now running the few yards to the glisteniug 
ice-moutih of the Gloria Express bob-run. Bond got a glimpse 
of the profile under the moon. Yes, it was Blofeld aU right! 
Even as Bond rah on down the slope, the man had flung 
himself down on his skeleton and had disappeared as if 
swallowed up by the glistening landscape. Bopd got to the 
'garage'. Damn, they were all six-men or two-men models! 
No, there was one skeleton at the back! Bond hauled it out. 
No time to see if the runners were straight, the steering-arm 
shifting easily ! He ran to the start and hurled himself under 
the protecting chain in a mad forward dive that landed him 
half on and half off his skeleton. He straightened himself and 
shifted his body well forward on the flimsy little aluminium 
platform and gripped the steering-arn?., keeping his elbows 
well in to his^ sides. He was already going like hell dovra the 
dark-blue gutter! He tried braking with the toes of both his 
boots. Damned Uttle difference! What came first on the 
blasted run? There was this lateral straight across the 
shoulder of the mountain, then a big banked curve. He was 

217 



into it now! Bond kept his right shoulder down and inched 
tight' oh' the steering-arm. Even so, te went perilously hear 
the top edge of the bank before he dived down into the dark 
gully again. What came next on that metal map? "Why in hell 
hadn't he studied it more carefiiUy? He ^g^^ his answer! It 
looked like a straight, but the sliaiddyre cam sharp 
dip. Bond left the ground and jlew. The crash of his landing 
aliiost knocked the wind out of his body. Jle frantically dujg 
his toes into th? ic'ej managed to get down from perhaps 
fif^ ia,I),h. to forty; Well, well!. So that was 'Dsad Man's 
Lefep.' What in hell was the next bit of inmder? •Whizi;- 
Bang Straight'! And by God it was! -r 200 yards when he 
must have been doing around seventy. He; remembered that 
on the finishing straight of the Gresta the stars got up. to 

: over eighty. Np dpubt something like that was still to cpin,6! 
But how, flasluiig towards hiin, in silver and blacli:, came an 
S-behd 'Battling S '. The toes of Bond's .bootS slid madden- 
iflgly on the black ice. Under his nose, he could see the 
parallel tracks of Blqftld-s rminers %id3. betw theifi, 'the 
grooves: ;of his toe-sipik^; ^he.old foil As spon a^ heard 
the helicPi)teri,, lie Must have . gpt himself feed his only 
escape route. But at this speed Bondmust surely be catching 
up with him!. For God's sake look out! Here comes the SI 
There was nothing he could do about it He swayed his body 
as best he could, felt the searing crash of one dbow against 
one wall, was hurled across into the opposite one, and was 
then spewed out into the straight again. God Almighty, but it 
hurt! He could feel the cold wind on both elbows. The cloth 
had gone! Then so had the skin! Bond clenched his teeth. 
And he was only half-way down, if that] But then, ahead^ 
flashing through a patch of moPnlight, was the other, body, 

• Blofeld! Bond took a chance, heaved himself up on one hand 
and reached down for liis gun. The wind tried to tear him off 
the bob, but he had the gun. He opened his mouth wide and 
gripped the gun between Hs' teeth, flexed the ice-caked leather 
on his right hand. Then he . got the gun in his right hand, 
lifted his toes olfthe ice, and went like heU. But now the man 
had disappeared into the shadows' and a giant bank reared up 

21,8 



ahead. This Would be 'Hell's Delight'! Oh well, if he could 
make this, there would be another straight and he could begin 
-shootirig. Bond dug his toes in, got a glimpse of an ice-wall 
ahead and to the left, and in a flash was chmbihg it, straight 
up ! God, in a split second he would be over the edge! Bond 
hammered in his right boot and luirched his body to the 
right, tearing at the steering-arm. Reluctantly the shver of 
aluminium answered and Bond, inches from the top of the 
wall, found himself swooping down into blackness and then 
out again oi^ to a moonlit straight. Only fifty yards ahead was 
the flying figuxci with chips of ice fountaining up from the 
braking spikes on his boots. Bond held his breath and got 
off two shots. lie thought they were good ones, but now the 
man had gone into shadow again. But Bond was gaining, 
gaining. His lips drew back from his teeth in an almost 
animal snarl. You bastard! You're a dead duck! You Can't 
stop or fire back. I'm coming after you like lightning! Soon I 
shall only be ten, five yards behind you. Then you'll have 
had it! 

But the shadows concealed another hazard, long transverse 
waves in the ice - 'The Bone-shaker' 1 Bond crashed from 

one to the next, felt his boots being almost torn from his feet 
as he tried to brake, nearly lost his gun, felt his stomach 
flatten against his spine with each shattering impact, felt his 
rib cag;e ahnost cracking. But then it was over and Bond 
sucked in air through his denched teeth."Now for a length of 
straight! But what was that ahead on the track? It Was some- 
thing black, something the size of a big lemon that was 
bouncing along gaUy like a child's rubber ball. Had Blofeld, 
now only about thkty yards ahead, dropped something, a 
bit of his equipment? Had he? The realization came to Bond 
in a surge of terror that almost made him vomit. He ground 
his toes into the ice. No effect! He was gaining on the gaily 
bouncing thing. Flashing down on it. On the grenade! 

Bond, sick in the stoma.ch, lifted his toes and let himself go. 
What setting had Blofeld put on it? How long had he held 
it with the pin out? The only hope was to pray to God and 
race, it! , - , • 

219 



The next thing Bond knew was that the whole tracic had 
blown up in his face and that ihe and his skeletoi^ bob were 
flying through the air, .He landed in Soft snoWj with' the 
skeleton on top of him and' passed out like a light. 

Later, Bond Was to estupate tiiat he lay there only a mdtter 
of minutes. It Was atremendons explosion from the mountain 
above him that brought him staggering to his feet, up to his 
belly in snow. He looked vaguely up to where it had Come 
from. It must have been the club building going up, because 
now there was the glare of flamies and a tower of smoke that 
rose towards the moon. There caine the echoing crack of 
anoiier explosion and Blofeld's block disintegrated, great 
chunks of it crashing down the mountain side, turning them- 
selves into giant snowballs that botoded.off down' towards 
the tree-line. By God, theyfU start another avalanche! thought 
Boiid yagudy. ■ Th^id he realized that, it iclidn't inatter this 
time, he was away to the right,;almost underneath the caijle/ 
railway. And now the:.stjitidn went up and Bpiid stared 
fascinated , as '&e great^^^ w tension rdeasedj came 

Wssing and snakjiig down the ifloiuataiti tpw^ds |hiin, THere 
was nothing he could db abouUt^nt stand 
cut him down, they cut him down; But they lashed past in this 
snow, wrapped themselves briefly round the tail pylon above 
the trecrline, tore it away in a metaDio q:aclding, and dis- 
appeared over theiedge of the shonlder; 

Bond laughed weaMy with pleasure and began feeling 
himself for damage. His torn elbows he already knew about, 
but his, forehead hurt like- heU, He felt it gingerly^: then 
scooped up a handful of.snow and held it agatrist the wound. 
The blood showed blade in the mopnUght alt oyer, 

; btit there didri*t seiem to be ^ythmg Brpkeiiv He bent dazedly 
to the twisted remains of the skeleton. The steering-arm had 
g;one, had probably saved his head, and both runnei;S were 
bent. There were a lot of rattles froOi the rivets, but perhaps 
the dainned thing would run. vlt ihad bloody Well got tp ! ' 
There was ho other way for Bond to get down the mountain ! ' 
His gim? Gone to hell, of course. Wearily Bond heaved him- 
self over the wall of the track arid sUd carefully down. 



clutching the remains bf his skeleton. As soon as he got to the 
bottom of the gutter, everything began to slip downwardsj 
but he rhanaged to haul himself on to the bob and get shaHly 
going, In fact, the bent runhers were a blessing and the bob 
, scraped slowly down, leaving great furrows in the ice. There 
were more turns, more hazards, but, at a bare ten tiules an 
hour, they were child's play and soon Bond was iiirough the 
trde-line and into 'Paradise Alley', the finishing straight, 
where he slowly came to a halt He left the skeleton where it 
stopped and scrambled bver tliis lbw ice-wall. Here the show 
was beaten hard by spectators' feet and he stumbled slowly 
along, nursing his aches, arid occasionally dabbing at his head 
with handfuls of snow. What would he find at the bottom, 
by the Cable station? If it Was Blofdd, Bond Would be a dead : 
duck! But there were no lights on in the station into which 
the cables now trailed limply along the ground;. By God, 
that had been an expensive bang! But what of Marb-Ange 
and his merry itieh, and the helicoptet?, 

,As if to answer hini, he heard the clatter of its engine 
high up: in the, mountains and in a moment the ungainly 
black shape crossed the moOn and disappeared down the 
valley. Bond sioiiled to himself. They wejce going to have 4 
tough time arguing thems^yes across Swiss air space' this 
times! But Marc-Ange had thought put dn alternative route 
over Germany. That would also riot be fun. They would ; 
have to argue the toss with, 'NATO? Well, if a Alarsejll^s 
couldn't blarney his way across two hundred miles, nobody 
could! ,^ • 

And now, up 'the road jfroin' Sainadeii that Bond knfcW 
so well^ came the iron hee-haw warning of the local fire- 
engine. The blinking red light on its cabin roof was perhaps 
a riute away. Bond, carefuUy;;apprpaching flie corner of t^^^ 
darkened cable^station, prepared his, story, He crept tip to the 
wall of the building and/looked round. Nobody! No trace 
except firesh tyre-marks outside the entrance door, Blofeld 
must have telephoned bis man down here before hP; started 
and used him and his car for the getaway. Wbidi way had he. 
gone? Bond walked out on to the road. Thp tracks turned 

- 221 ■ ' ' ' 



left. Blofeld vrould be at the Bemina Pass or over it by now, 
on his way down into Italy and away. It might still have been 
possible to have him held at the frontier by alerting the fire- 
brigade, whose lights now held Bond in their beam. No! 
That would be idiotic. How had Bond got this knowledge 
unless he himself had been up at Piz Gloria that night? No, 
he must jusf play the part of the stupidest tourist in the 
Engadinei 

The shining red vehicle pulled up in front of the cable 
station and the warning klaxons ran down with an iron 
groan. Men jumped to the ground. Some went into the 
station while others stood gazing up at the Piz Gloria, where 
a dull red glow still showed. A man in a peaked cap, pre- 
sumably the captain of the team, came up to Bond and 
saluted. He fired off a torrent of Schwyzerdiitch. Bond shook 
his head. The man tried French. Bond again showed in- 
comprehension. Ano&er man with fragmentary English was 
called over. 'What is it that is happening?' he asked. 

Bond shook his head dazedly. 'I don't know. I was walking 
down from Pontresina to Samaden. I came on a day excursion 
from Zurich and missed my bus. I was going to take a train 
from Samaden. Then I saw these explosions up tihe mountain ' 
- he waved vaguely - 'and I walked up there past the station 
to see better, and the next thing I knew was a bang on the 
head and being dragged along the path.' He indicated his 
bleeding head and the raw elbows that protruded from his 
torn sleeves. 'It must have been the broken cable. It must 
have hit me and dragged me with it. Have you got a Red Cross 
outfit with you?' 

'Yes, yes.' The man called over to the group, and one 
of his colleagues wearing a Red Cross brassard on his arm 
fetched his black box from the vehicle and came over. He 
clucked his tongue over Bond's injuries and, while his 
interrogator told Bond's story to the Captain, bade Bond 
foUow him mto the toilette in the station. There, by the 
light of a torch, he washed Bond's wounds, appHed quantities 
of iodine that stung like hell, and then strapped wide strips 
of Elastoplast over the damage. Bond looked at his face in 

222 



the mirror. He laughed. Hell of a bridegroom he was going 
to malce! The Red Cross man cluck-clucked in sympathy^ 
produced a flask of brandy out of his box, and offered it to 
Bond. B6nd|;ratefully took a long swig. The interpreter came 
in. 'There is nothing, we can do here. It will need a helicopter 
from the mountain rescue team. We must go back to Samaden 
and report. You wish to come?' 

'I certainly do,' said Bond enthusiastically, and, with many 
politenesses and no question of why he should attempt the , 
icy walk to Samaden in the dark instead of taking a taxi, he 
was borne comfortably to Samaden and dropped off, with 
the warmest gestures of goodwill and sympaliy, at the rail- 
way station. - , 

* * * ^4 

By a rattling Personenzug to Coire and then by express to 
Ziirich, Bond got to the door of the flat of Head of Station Z 
in the .Bahnhofstrasse at two in the morning. He had had 
some sleep in the train but he was almost out on his feet, 
and his whole body felt as if it had been beaten with wooden 
truncheons. He leaned wearily agmnst the bell ticketed 
'Muir' until a tousled man in pyjamas came and opened the 
' door and held it on the chain. 'Um Gottes Willen! Was ist 
denn los?' he inquired angrily. The English accent came 
through. Bond said, 'It's me that's "los". Ifs 007 again, 
I'm afraid.' 

'Good God, man, come in, come in!' Muir opened the> 
door and looked quickly up and down the empty street. 
'Anyone after you?' ' . 

'Shouldn't think so,* said Bond thickly, coming gratefully 
mto the warmth of the entrance hall. Head of Z closed ^e 
door and locked it. He turned and looked at Bond. 'Christ, 
old boy, what in hell's been happening to you?" You look as 
if you'd been through a mangle. Here, come in and have a 
drink.* He led the way into a comfortable sitting-room. He 
gestured at the sideboard. 'Help yourself. I'U just tell Phyllis 
not to worry - unless you'd like her to iiave a look at the 
damage. She's qmte a hand at that sort of thin§.' 

223 



'No, it!s all right, thanks. A dimk'U fls me; Nire and warm 
in here; I never want to see a patch of snow again as long as 
I live.' , ■■. : ' ' - 

Muir went out and Bond heaird a qiilck confabulation 
across the passage. Muir caine back. 'Phyllis is fixing the 
spare room. She'll, put some fresh 'dressings and; stuJff otit 
in the bathroomi .Now then' lie poured himself 
jwHslsy ^d soda i tbi' keep ''Bond company and , 'sat down 
opposite him - 'teUmfe what yoB can/ • 
. Bond said, 'I'm terribly s6ncy,'.but I can't tell you much. 
The same business as iie other day> Next ^chapter. I prom^ 
you'd' do better to teipw nothing about it. , I wouldn't haye 
come here only I've got to get a signal off to M, personal, 
triple Xjgiphef to be deciphered by recipient only. Would 
you be a good diap and put it on the printer? ' i , 

'Of conrsd/ Muir. loo his watdh, 'Two-thirty am. 
Hell of a time to wake the old man up. , But that's your 
business. Heire, coiiie into the- cockpit, so to speak/ He 
walked across to the book-lined wall, took out a book and 
, fiddled. There was a click and. a small door swung open; 
'Mind your head,', said Miiir. 'Old disused lavatory. Just 
the right size. Gets a bit^stuffyi wheh:^^ a lot of traffic 
coming or goin^ bttt thsit cto't be helped. We can afford 
to leave tiie door open.' He bent down to a safe on the floor, 
worked the combination, and brought out what looked like a 
portable typewriter. He set it on the shelf next to the bulky 
teleprinter, sat down, and clacked off the prefix and routing 
instructions, winding a small handle at the side of the 
machine at the end of each word. 'OK; Fire, away !' , , : 

Bond leaned up against the wall. He hadtoyed with various 
formulas on . his journey down to Samaden. It had to be 
1 something that would get through accurately to M and yet 
keep Muir in the dark, 'keep his hands dean. Bond said, 
'AH right.' Make it this,; woilld you? redoubt properly 

.SIXED STOP DETAItSi; LACKING *' AS EY;E WENT SOLO 
AFTER THE OWNER WHO' GREATLY REGRET GOT AWAY 
AND PROBABLY ITALICIZED BY NOW STOP FOR- 
WARDING FULL REPORT . FROM STATION M THEN 

224 ' , 



GRATEFULLY ACCEPTING TEN DAYS LEAVE SIGNED 

007.' 

Muir repeated the signal and tien began putting it, in 
the five-figure groups that had come off the Triple X 
machine^ on to the teleprinter. 

Bond watched the message gO;, the end of another chapter 
of his dutiesj as Marc-Ange had put it, 'On/Her Majesty's 
Seaet Service'. What would Hex Majesty think of this string 
of crimes conamitted in her name? God, it was stuffy in the 
httle room ! Bond felt the cold sweat break out on his fore- 
head. He put his hand up to his face, muttered something 
indistinctly about 'that bloody mountain' and gracefully 
crumpled to the floor. • 



225 



26 



Happiness WitHoup a Shadow ? 

Tracy CfAZEfl at him wide-eyed when she met him outside 
Passport Control at Munich Airportj but she waited until 
they were inside the little Lancia before she burst into tears. 
. '.Wliat ihave. they been doing to you^ said through her 
sobs. *WlMtMve fhey been do 

' Bond took her in his arms. 'Its all right, Tracy. I promise 
you. These are only cuts and bruises, like a bad ski-faU. 
Now don't be a goose. They could happen to anyone.' He 
smoothed hack her hair and took out hfe handkerchief and 
dabbed at Her eyes. ; 

She took tiie handkerchief from Hni and laugbed through 
her tears. 'Now you've ruined my eye-black. And I put it on 
so carefully for you.' She took out her pocket .mirror and 
carefully wip^; away the smudges. .Sh,e said, 'Ifs so sUly. 
But I knew you were up to hb good As sodn as you said you 
were going off for a few days to clean up something instead 
of cbmiug to me^, I knew yoii were going to get into mote 

• trouble. And now JVIarc-Arige has.tdephoned and asked me 
if I've sbeii you. He was very mysterious and sounded 
worried. And when I said I hadn't he just rang off. And now 
there's this story in the papers about Piz Gloria. And you 
were so guarded on the telephone this morning. And from 
Ziirich. I knew it all tied up.' She put back her mirror and 

. pressed the self-starter. 'All right. I won't ask questions. 

■ And I'mi sorry I cried.' She added fiercely, 'Biit ybu dre 
stich an idiot! You don't seem to think it matters to any- 
one! The way you go oh playiiig Red Indians. It's so - so ; 
' selfish.',:- i . ■■ ■■ . ■ 

Bond teached out and pressed her: hand on the wheel. 
He hated 'scenes'. But it was true what she said. He hadn't 
thought of her, only of the job. It never crossed his mitid that 
anybody reahy cared about him.! A shake of the head frqm 



his ftiends when he wentj a few careful lines in the obituary 
columns of The Times, a momentary pang in a few girls' 
hearts. But now, in three days' time, he would no longer be 
alone; Hfe would be a half of two. people. There wouldn't 
only be May and Mary Goodnight who would tut-tut over 
him when he came back from some job as a hospital case. 
Nowj if he got himself kiUed, thae wotild be;,:T^ who 
would at any rate partially die with him. . ■' " : ■ 

The little carwove experdy through the traffic. Bond said, 
' I'ra sorry, Tracy, It was something that had to be done. You 
kiidw hoW. it is. I just couldn't back out of it. I really 
wouldn't have been happy here, like I am npw, if I'd shirked 
It. "^ou do .?ee that, don't you? ' ; , . . . ; > 
. She reached but knd toudhed his cheek: 'II wouldn't love 
you if you weren't a pirate. I expect it's in the'blood. I'll 
get used to it. Don't change. I don't want to draw! your , 
teeth.like women do with their men< I want to live with 3»o«j 
not with somebody else: But dbn't mind if I howl like a dog 
every now and then. Or rather like a bitch. It's only love.' 
She gave him a fleeting smile. 'Die Welt, with the story in it, 
is behind the seat on, the floor.' . 

Botid laughed at her mind-reading. 'Damn youj Tracy.' 
He reached for the paper. He had been aching tp; see What 
it said, how much had come out. . ' : ■ 

There it was, down the central gutter between the first 
lead, inevitably on Berlin, and the. second, equally inevitably, 
on the miracle of the liattest German export figures; All it 
said, 'from our corresponclent', date-lined St Moritz, was' 
'mysterious EXPtosiONS ON Piz GLORIA. Cable Rail- 
way to iyUllionaires' Resort Destroyed'. And then a , few lines 
repe;ating the" content 6^^^ and saying that the; 

police would investigate by helicopter at first light in tie 
morning. The next headline caught Bond's eye: fiN ENG- 
LAND, POLIO scare'. And theii, date-Hned tih.e day before 
firbm London, a brief Renter dispatch: 'The nine ghrls held 
at various British auporison.suspicion' of having; had contact, 
with a possible polio, iarrier at Ziiridi Aiiporti :.also ari^ 
EngUsh^l, are still beiug held m (Juaijaiitine. A Ministry 



of Healtii representative said that this was purely a routine 
precaution. A tenth girl, the origin of the scare, a Miss Violet 
O'NeiUj is under observation at Shannon Hospital. She is a 
native of Eire.' 

Bond smiled to himself. When they were pushed, the 
Britishi could do this sort of thing supremely well. How much 
co-ordination had this brief report required? To begin with, 
M. Then the CID, MI5, Ag. and Fish., HM Customs, Pass- 
port Control, the Ministry of Health, and the Government of 
Eire. All had contributed, and with tremendous speed and 
efficiency. And the end product, put out to the world, had 
been through the Press Association to Reuter. Bond tossed 
the paper over his shoulder and watched the Kaiser Yellow 
buildings of what had once , been one of the most beautiful 
towns in Europe, now slowly being rebuilt in the same old 
Kaiser Yellow, file by in their post-war drabness. So the 
case was closed, the assignment over ! 

But still The Big One had got away! 

They got to the hotel at about three o'clock. There was a 
message for Tracy to call Marc-Ange at the Maison Rouge 
at Strasbourg. They went up to her ropm and got through. 
Tracy said, 'Here he is. Papa, and almost in one piece.' 
She handed the receiver to Bond. 

Marc-Ange said,. 'Did you get him?' 

'No, damn it. He's in Italy now. At least I think he is. 
That was the way he went. How did you get on? It looked 
fine firom down below.' 

'Satisfactory. All accounted for.' 

'Gone?' 

'Yes. Gone for good. There was no trace of your man 
j&om Ziirich. I lost two. Our friend had left a surprise in his 
filing-cabinet. That accounted for Che-Che. Another one 
wasn't quick enough. That is all. The trip back was enter- 
taining. I will give you the details tomorrow. I shall travel 
tonight in my sleeping-car. You know?' 

'Yes. By the way, what about the girl ftiend, Irma? ' 

'There was no sign of her.vjust as well. It would have 
been difficult to send her away like the others.' 

228 



'Yes. Well, thankSj Marc-Ange. And the news firom Eng- - 
land is also good, See you tomorrow.' 

Bond put down the receiver. Tracy had discreetly retired 
to the bathroom and locked the door. She now called, 'Can I 
come out?' 

'Two minutes, darling.' Bond got on to Station M. His 
call was expected. He arranged to visit the Head of Station, 
a man he knew slightly called Lieutenant-Commander 
Savage, in an hour's time. He released Tracy and they 
made plans for the evening, then he went along to his 
room. 

His suitcase had been unpacked and there was a bowl of 
crocuses beside his bed. Bond smiled, picked up the bowl, 
and placed it firmly on the window-siU. Then he had a quick 
shower, complicated by having to keep his dressings dry, 
changed out of his stintdng ski dothes into the warmer of the 
two dark-blue suits he had brought with him, sat down at 
the writing-desk, and jotted down the headings of what he 
would have to put on the teleprinter to M. Then he put on 
his dark-blue raincoat and went down into the street and 
along to the Odeons Platz. 

Clf be had not been thinking of other things, he might have 
noticed the woman on the other side of the street, a squat, 
toad-like figure iu a firowsty dark-green Loden cloak, who 
gave a , start of surprise when she . saw him sauntering along, 
hustled across the street through the traffic, and got on his 
tail. She was expert at what she was doing, and, when he 
went into the newish apartment house on the Odeons Platz, 
she didn't go near the door to verify the address, but waited 
on the far side of the square until he came out. Then she 
taiiled him back to the Vier Jahreszeiten, took a taxi back to 
her flat, and put in a long-distance call to the Metropole 
Hotel on Lake Como.) 

Bond went up to his room. On the wtiting-desk an im- 
pressive array of dressings and medicaments had been laid 
out. He got on to Tracy and said, 'What the hell is this? 
Have you got a pass-key or something?' 

She laughed, 'The maid on this floor has become a friend. 
22? 



She understands people who are in love. Which is more than 
you do. What do you mean by moving those flowers?' 
, 'They're lovely. I thought they looljed prettier by the 
window and they will get some sun there. Now I'll make a 
deal. If you'll come along and change iny diressingSj I'll take 
you down and buy you a drink. Just ohfe. And three for 
me. That's the right ratio , between men laiiid womefl. AU 
right?' ^ ■ ,; ' v : ■ . _^ , 

'Wilco.' Her receiver went down- 
It hvurt like hell and Bond cotddii't prevent the tears of 
pain from squeezing out of his eyes. She kissed them away. 
She looked pale at what she had seen. 'Vou're sure, you 
oughtn't to see a doctor? ' 

'I'm just seeing one. You did it beautifully. What worries 
me iis how we're going to. make love. In the proper; fashion, 
elbows are rather important for the man;' 

'Then we'll do it in an improper fashion. But not tonight, 
or tomorrow. Only when we're married. TiU then I am going 
to pretend I'm- a virgin:' 'She looked'at him seriously. 'I wish, 
I was, James. I am in a way, you know. People can make love 
without loving.' ^ 

'Drinks,' said Bond firmly. 'We've got allthe time iii the 
world to talk about love.' ' . 

''You aire i pig,' sheiaid indignantly. 'We've got so much 
to talk about and all you think sibout is drink.' , , . 

Bond kughed^He put an arni gingerly round her neck 
and kissed her long and passionately. He broke away. 
'There, thafs just the beginning of my conversation. We'll 
go oh with the duller bits in the bar. Then we'll have a 
wonderM dinner in. Walterspiel's and; talk about rings and 
whether we'U sleep in twin beds or one, and; ^hether I've 
got enough sheets and piUows for -two, arid' otter exciting 
things to do with feeing mMried.' ■ ' . ■ ^ , 

- And it was in that way that the eveniiig passed and Bond's 
head reeled with all the practical feminine^ problems, -she 
raised, in high seriousness, but he was surprised to find that 
aU this nest-building gave him a curious pleasure, a feeling 
that he had at last come'ta rest jmd. that life would now be 



fuller, havfe more meaning, for tiaving soraedne to share it 
with. Togetlierness ! ^What a curiously valid diche it was ! 

• The next day was occupiedwith hilarious meals with Mafc- 
Ange, whose giant trailer had cbrae difnng the night to take 
up most of the parldng space behind the hotel, and with 
searchiQg the antique shops for an engagement and a wedding 
ring; The latter was easy, i-the traditional plain gold band,' 
hut .Tracy Couldn't make up her .rnindiabout the enpgement 
ring and finaUy dispatthed Boil'd to findf sohiething he liked 
himself while she had her last fittiog for her 'goiag-away' 
dress. Bond hired a taxi,, and he and the taxi-man, who had 
been a Luftwaffe pilot during the war and! was proud of ity 
tore round the town together untfl, at an antique shop near 
the Nymphenburg Palaccj Bond found what he wmted - a 
baroque ring in white gold with two diamond hands clasped,' 
It Was graceful and simple and file taxi-man was.; also in 
favour^ so the deal was done and the two men went off to 
celebrate .at tie Franziskdner Keller, where they ate mounds 
of Weisswiitsl and drank four steins of beer each and swore 
they wouldn't ever fight each other again. Then, happy with' 
his last bachelor painty. Bond returned, lipsily to the hotel^ 
avoided being embraced by the tan-^mj ahd went 
up to Tracy's room and put the riag on her finger. 

She burst into tears, sobbing that it was the most beautiful 
ring in the world, but when he took her in his arms she began ■ 
to giggle. 'Oh, JaiQes,:you are bad. You stink like a pig of 

beer aiid sausages. ^Where toi? you'been?' 

When Bond told her, she laughed at the picture he painted 
pf his last fling and then paraded happily up and down the 
room, making exaggeratedly gradous. gestures wiiii her hand 
to show off, the ring and.for the diamonds to catch the Ught. 
Then the telephone rang and it was iVIarc-Ange. saying that 
he wanted to talk to Bond in the bju:, tod would Tra<gr idridly 
keep out of the way for half to hbtir? ;. ' 

Bond went down tod, ajft^ carjeM considera^^ 
that schnapps would go with his bedr and ordered i double 

'231.'' 



Steinhager. Marc-Ange's face was serious. 'Now listetij 
James. We have not had a proper talk. It is very wrong. 
I am about to become your father-in-law and I insist. Many 
months agO:, I made you "a serious offer. You declined it. . 
But now you have accepted it. What is the name of your " 
bank?' 

Bond said angrily, 'Shut up, Marc-Ange. If you think I'll 
accept a million pounds from you or :fi:om anyone else you're 
mistaken. I don't want my life to be ruined. Too much 
money is the worst curse you can lay on anyone's head. I have 
enough. Tracy has enough. It will be fun saving up to buy 
something we want but can't quite afford. That is tiie only 
kind of money to have - not quite enough.' 

Marc-Ange said furiously, 'You have been drinking. You 
are drunk. You don't understand what you are saying. What 
I am giving you is only a fifth of my fortune. You under- 
stand? It means nothing to me. Tracy is used to having 
whatever she wants. I wish it to remain so. She is my only 
child. You cannot possibly keep her on a Civil Servant's pay. 
You have got to accept!' 

'If you give me any money, I sweat I will pass it on to 
charily. You want to give your money away to a dogs' home? 
All right. Go ahead!' 

'But James' - Marc-Ange was now pleading - 'what will 
you accept from me? Then a trust fund for any children you 
may have. Yes?' 

'Even worse. If we have children, I will not have this noose 
hung round their heads. I -didn't have any money and I 
haven't needed it. I've loved wnning money gambling 
because that is found money, money that comes out of the aii 
Uke a great surprise. If I'd Inherited money, I'd have gone 
the way of all those playboy Mends of Tracy's you com- 
plained about so much. No, Marc-Ange.' Bond drained his 
Steinhager decisively. 'It's no good.' 

Marc-Ange looked as if he would burst into tears. Bond 
relented. He said, 'It's very kind of you, Marc-Ange, and 
I appreciate it fcom the heart. I'll teU you what. If I swear 
to come to you if either of us ever needs help, will that do? 

232 



There may be illnesses and things, Perhaps it would be 
nice, if we had a cottage in the country somewhere. We miay 
need help if we hav'e children, Now. Btow about that? Is it a 
bargain?' 

Marc-Ange turned doubtful, dogs' eyes^on Bond. 'You, 
promise? You would not cheat tne of helping you, adding tp 

your happiness when you allow me to?' 

Bond reached over and took Marc-Ange's right hand and ' 
pressed it. 'My word on it. Now come on, pull yourself 
together. Here conies Tracyi She'U liink we've been having 

a fights'' ■ :•■■,,„..■■■' v'; ■ 

' So we have,' said Marc-Ang^ globiiiilyl 'And it is the first 
fight I, have ever lost.' :■ : 



27 



All the Time in the World 

*lDO.' 

James Bond said the words at ten-thirty in the morning of a 
qrystal-clear New Year's Day in the British Consul General's 

drawing-room. 
And he meant them. 

The Ckinsul General had proved himself, as British Consuls 
so often do, to be a man of efficiency and a man with a heart. 

It was a holiday for him and, as he confessed, he should have 
been recovering from a New Year's Eve hangover. And he 
had shaved many days off the formal period of notice, but 
that, he explained, he had ..occasionally, and improperly, 
risked in his career if there were exceptional circumstances 
such as the imminent, death of either party. 'You both look 
healthy enough,' he had said when they jSrst visited him 
together, 'but that's a nasty cut. on your head. Commander 
Bond, and the Countess is perhaps looking a Httle pale. And 
I have taken the precaution of obtaining special dispensation 
from the Foreign Seaetaty, which I may say, to my surprise, 
was immediately forthconaing. So let's malce it New Year's 
Day. And come to my home. My wife is hopelessly senti- 
mental about these occasional jobs I have to do, and I know 
she'd love to meet you both.' 

The papers were signed, and Head of Station M, who had 
agreed to act as Bond's best man and who was secretly longing 
to write a sensational note to the head of his Ix)ndori Section 
about all this, produced a handful of confetti and threw- most 
of it over Marc-Ange, who had turned up in a 'gylindre' 
and a full suit of very French tails with, surprisingly, two 
rows of medals of which the last^ to Bond's astonishment, 
was the King's Medal for foreign resistance-fighters. 

'I will tell you all about it one day, my dear James/ 
he had said in answer to Bond's admiring inquiry. 'It was 

234 



tremendous fun. I had myself what the Americans eall "a 
ball". And-' - his voice sank to a whisper and he put one 
finger along his brown, sensitive nose confess that I 
profited by the occasion to lay my hands on the secret funds 
of a certain section of the Abwehr. But Herkos OdontoUj 
my dear James! Herkos Odonton! Medals are so often just 
the badges of good luck. If I am a hero, it is for things for 
which no medals are awarded. And' - he drew lines with his 
fingers across his chest - 'there is hardly room on the breast 
of tliis "frac"j whichj by the way, is by courtesy of the 
excellent Galeries Barbis in Marseilles, for all that I am due 
under that heading.* 

The farewells were said and Bond submitted himself, he 
swore for the last time, to Marc-Ange's embraces, and they 
went down the steps to the waiting Lancia. Someone, Bond 
suspected the Consul's wife, had tied white ribbons j&om the 
comers of the wind-screen to -the grill of the radiator, and 
there was a small group of bystanders, passers-by, who had 
stopped, as they do all over the world, to see who it was, what 
they looked like. 

The Consul General shook Bond by the hand. 'I'm afiraid 
we haven't managed to keep this as private as you'd have 
liked. A woman reporter came on firom the Milnchener 
lllustrierte this morning. Wouldn't say who she was. Gossips 
writer, I suppose. I had to give her the bare facts. She par- 
ticularly wanted to know the time of the ceremony, if you 
can call it thkt, so that they could send a camera-man along. 
At least you've been spared that. All still tights I suppose. 
Well, so long and the best of luck.' 

Tracy, who had elected to 'go away' in a dark-grey Tytoler 
outfit with ^e traditidnal dark-green trimmings and stag's- 
hom buttons, threw her saucy mountaineer's hat with its 
gay chamois' beard cockade into the back seat, climbed in, 
and pressed the starter. The engine purred and then roared 
softly as she went througji the gears down the empty street. 
They both waved one hand out of a wmdow and Bond, 
looking back, saw Marc-Ange's 'cylindre' whirling up into 
the air. There was a small flutter of answering hands from 

235 



the pavement and ' theri they were round the comer and 
way.: ; 

''When th^ Autobahn exit for Salzburg and 

Kufstein, Bond saidj 'Be an angel and puU in to the side, 
Tracy. IVe got two limgs to do.' ' 

She pulled in on to the grass verge. The brown grass of 
winter showed through the thin snow. Bond reached for her 
and took her in: his arms. He kissed her tenderly. 'That's* 
the first thing, and I just wanted to say that I'fl look after you, 
Tracy. WiU you,inidd being to^^ 

She hdd him away firoim het and looked at him; She 
smiled. Her eyes were introspective. 'That's what it means 
being Mr and Mrs, doesn't it? They don't say Mrs and Mr. 
But you need looking after too. Let's just look after each 
other.' 

■'All right. But I'd rather have ray job than yours. Now. 
I simply must get out and take down those ribbons. .1 can't 
stand loqking like a coronation. D'you mind?' 

She latighedl 'You like being anonymous. I want everyone 
to cheer^as we'.go by;/! knpw' you're, going to have this car 
sprayed grey or black, as soon as you -get a chance. That's all 
right. But nothing's going to stop me wearing you like a flag 
from now on. Will yoii sopietimes feel like wearing me like a 
flag?'' 

'On all hoUdays and feast days.' Bond got out and re- 
moved the ribbons. He looked up at the dpudless sky^. The 
sun' felt warm on his face. He said, 'Dp you thiiok we'd 
be too coldif we took the rqof down?' 

'No, let's. We can orily see half the wbidd with it.jip. And 
it's a lovely drive from here to Elitzbuhd. We can always 
put it up again if we want to.' 

Bond unscrewed the two butterfly nuts and folded the 
canvas top baick behind the seats. He had a look up and down 
the Autobahn. These was' pleaty of traffic. At the big Shell 
station on the roiiiidabout they had just passed, his eye was 
caught by a bright-red open Maserati being tanked up. Fast 
job. And a typical sporty couple^ a maii and a woman in thb 
driving-seat ~. white dust-qoats, aiJid: linen helmets buttoned 



under tiie chin. Big dark-green talc goggles that obscured 
most of the rest of the faces. Usual German speedsters' 
unifomi. Too far away to see if they were good-looking 
enough for the car, but the silhouette of the woman wasn't 
ptoniising. Bond got in beside Tracy and they set off again 
down the beautifblly landscaped road. 

They didn't talk much. Tracy kept at about eighty' and 
there was wind-roar. That was the trouble about open cars. 
Bond glanced at his watch. 11 .45. They would get to Kufstein 
at about one. Thore was a splendid Gasthaus lip the winding 
streets towards the great 'castle.: Here' was a tiny liiie of ' 
pleasure," full of the heart-piucking whine of zither niusic 
ahd the gentle melancholy of Tyrolean yodellefs. It was here - 
that the German tourist traditionally stopped aifter his day's 
outing into cheap Austria, just outside the German frontier, 
for a last giant meal of Austrian food and wine. Bond put his , 
mouth up close to Tracy's ear and told her about it and 
about the other attraction at Kufetein - the most imaginative 
war memorial, for the 1914^-1$ war, ever devised.; Praictuaily 
at midday every day, the windows of the castle Me tlkqwn . 
open and a voluntary is played on the great organ inside. 
It can be heard for Mometres down the valley between the 
giant rnbuntain ranges for- which Kufstein .provides the gate- . 
way; 'But weishaH iniss it. It's coming up for twdye now." ■ 

'Never mind,' said Tracy, i'i'U' make; do with c^^ 
while you guzzle your beer sad sqhnapps,' She turned in to 
the right-hand fork leading to the underpass for kufstein, ■ 
and they were at once throt^h Roseoheiin and the great white 
peaks' were immediately atead. : -i-- 

The traffic was much sparser now alid there were kilo- ' ; 
metres where theirs was the only car onthe road that arrowed 
away between white meadows and larch copses, towards the, 
glittering barrier where blood had been shed between warring ■ 
armies for centuries. Bond glanced behind him. Miles away 
down the great highway was a speck of red. The Maserati? , ; 
They certainly hadn't got much competitive spirit if they 
couldn't catch the Lancia tat. eighty! Nd good having a car 
like that if you didn't drive it so as to losis aK other traffic in 
• , ' ' f;'-- ' 237 ''v-/;.. Z. ' 



your mirror. Perhaps he was doing them an injustice. Perhaps 
they too only wanted to motor quietly along and enjoy the 
day. 

Ten minutes later, Tracy said, 'There's a red car coming 
up fast behind. Do you want me to lose him? ' 

'No,* said Bond. 'Let him go. We've got all the time in the 
world.' , 

Now he could hear the rasping whine of the eight cylinders. 
He leaned over to the left and jerked a laconic ttumb for- 
wards, waving the Maserati past. 

The whine changed to a shattering roar. The wind-screen 
of the Lancia disappeared as if hit by a monster fist Bond 
caught a glimpse of a taut, snarling mouth under a syphilitic 
nose, the flash-eliminator of some automatic gun being with- 
drawn, and then the red car was past and the Lancia was 
going like hell off the verge across a stretch of snow and 
smashing a path through a young copse. Then Bond's head 
crashed into the wind-screen ftame and he was out. 

When he came to, a man in the khaki uniform of the Auto- 
bahn Patrol was shaking him. The young face was stark with 
horror. 'Was ist denn geschehen? Was ist denn geschehen?' 

Bond turned, towards Tracy. She was lyiag forward with 
her face buried in the ruins of the steering-wheel. Her pink 
handkerchief had come off and tlie bell of golden hair hung 
down and hid her face. Bond put his arm round her shoulders, 
across which the dark patches had begun to flower. 

He pressed her against him. He looked up at the young 
man and smiled his reassurance, 

'It's all right,' he said in a clear voice as if explaining 
something to a child. 'It's quite all right. She's having a rest. 
We'll be going on soon. There's no hurry. You see Bond's 
head sank down against hers and he whispered into'her hair - 
'you see, we've got all the time in the world.' 

The young patrolman took a last scared look at the 
motionless couple, hurried over to his motor cycle, picked up 
the hand-microphone, and began talking urgenlly to the 
rescue headquarters. 
